AC   P10916; Q16123;
Myosin regulatory light chain 2, ventricular/cardiac muscle isoform
(MLC-2) (MLC-2v).
"Isolation and nucleotide sequence of the cDNA encoding human
ventricular myosin light chain 2.";
"Interaction of a conserved peptide domain in recombinant human
ventricular myosin light chain-2 with myosin heavy chain.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"The major protein expression profile and two-dimensional protein
database of human heart.";
"Mutations in either the essential or regulatory light chains of
myosin are associated with a rare myopathy in human heart and skeletal
muscle.";
"Identification of two novel mutations in the ventricular regulatory
myosin light chain gene (MYL2) associated with familial and classical
forms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.";
"Systematic analysis of the regulatory and essential myosin light
chain genes: genetic variants and mutations in hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy.";
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: distribution of disease genes, spectrum
of mutations, and implications for a molecular diagnosis strategy.";
"Identification of the genotypes causing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
in northern Sweden.";
-!- SUBUNIT: Myosin is an hexamer of 2 heavy chains and 4 light
    chains.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in MYL2 are the cause of familial hypertrophic
    cardiomyopathy type 10 (CMH10) [MIM:608758]; also designated FHC
    or HCM. Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy [MIM:192600] is a
    heart disorder characterized by ventricular hypertrophy, which is
    usually asymmetric and often involves the interventricular septum.
    The prevalence of the disease in the general population is 0.2%.
    FHC is clinically heterogeneous, with inter- and intrafamilial
    variations ranging from benign to malignant forms with high risk
    of cardiac failure and sudden cardiac death.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in MYL2 are the cause of hypertrophic
    cardiomyopathy with mid-left ventricular chamber type 2 (MVC2)
    [MIM:608758]. MVC2 is a very rare variant of familial hypertrophic
    cardiomyopathy, characterized by mid-left ventricular chamber
    thickening.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: This chain binds calcium.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 EF-hand domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy mutation
    database;
    URL="http://www.angis.org.au/Databases/Heart/heartbreak.html".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=MYL2".
 GO:0005856; C:cytoskeleton; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:MGI.
 GO:0008307; F:structural constituent of muscle; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006942; P:regulation of striated muscle contraction; TAS:ProtInc.
Calcium; Cardiomyopathy; Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation;
Motor protein; Muscle protein; Myosin; Polymorphism; Repeat.
TMZERO
