AC   P22894; Q45F99;
Neutrophil collagenase precursor (EC 3.4.24.34) (Matrix
metalloproteinase-8) (MMP-8) (PMNL collagenase) (PMNL-CL).
"Human neutrophil collagenase. A distinct gene product with homology
to other matrix metalloproteinases.";
"NIEHS-SNPs, environmental genome project, NIEHS ES15478, Department
of Genome Sciences, Seattle, WA (URL: http://egp.gs.washington.edu).";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Characterization and activation of procollagenase from human
polymorphonuclear leucocytes. N-terminal sequence determination of the
proenzyme and various proteolytically activated forms.";
"Mercurial activation of human polymorphonuclear leucocyte
procollagenase.";
"Characterization of 58-kilodalton human neutrophil collagenase:
comparison with human fibroblast collagenase.";
"Partial amino acid sequence of human PMN leukocyte procollagenase.";
"Formation of a covalent Hg-Cys-bond during mercurial activation of
PMNL procollagenase gives evidence of a cysteine-switch mechanism.";
"The X-ray crystal structure of the catalytic domain of human
neutrophil collagenase inhibited by a substrate analogue reveals the
essentials for catalysis and specificity.";
"Structural implications for the role of the N-terminus in the
'superactivation' of collagenases. A crystallographic study.";
"Structure of human neutrophil collagenase reveals large S1'
specificity pocket.";
"1.8-A crystal structure of the catalytic domain of human neutrophil
collagenase (matrix metalloproteinase-8) complexed with a
peptidomimetic hydroxamate primed-side inhibitor with a distinct
selectivity profile.";
"Structure of malonic acid-based inhibitors bound to human neutrophil
collagenase. A new binding mode explains apparently anomalous data.";
-!- FUNCTION: Can degrade fibrillar type I, II, and III collagens.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Cleavage of interstitial collagens in the
    triple helical domain. Unlike EC 3.4.24.7, this enzyme cleaves
    type III collagen more slowly than type I.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 3 calcium ions per subunit.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 zinc ions per subunit.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Cannot be activated without removal of the
    activation peptide.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasmic granule. Note=Stored in
    intracellular granules.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Neutrophils.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peptidase M10A family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 hemopexin-like domain.
 GO:0005615; C:extracellular space; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008130; F:neutrophil collagenase activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008270; F:zinc ion binding; TAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006508; P:proteolysis; IDA:UniProtKB.
3D-structure; Calcium; Collagen degradation;
Direct protein sequencing; Extracellular matrix; Glycoprotein;
Hydrolase; Metal-binding; Metalloprotease; Polymorphism; Protease;
Signal; Zinc; Zymogen.
TMZERO
