AC   P17443;
UDP-N-acetylglucosamine--N-acetylmuramyl-(pentapeptide)
pyrophosphoryl-undecaprenol N-acetylglucosamine transferase
(EC 2.4.1.227) (Undecaprenyl-PP-MurNAc-pentapeptide-UDPGlcNAc GlcNAc
transferase).
"Nucleotide sequence involving murG and murC in the mra gene cluster
region of Escherichia coli.";
"Systematic sequencing of the Escherichia coli genome: analysis of the
0-2.4 min region.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Nucleotide sequence of the cell-envelope murG gene of Escherichia
coli.";
"The murG gene of Escherichia coli codes for the UDP-N-
acetylglucosamine: N-acetylmuramyl-(pentapeptide) pyrophosphoryl-
undecaprenol N-acetylglucosamine transferase involved in the membrane
steps of peptidoglycan synthesis.";
"The final step of peptidoglycan subunit assembly in Escherichia coli
occurs in the cytoplasm.";
"The 1.9 A crystal structure of Escherichia coli MurG, a membrane-
associated glycosyltransferase involved in peptidoglycan
biosynthesis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cell wall formation. Catalyzes the transfer of a GlcNAc
    subunit on undecaprenyl-pyrophosphoryl-MurNAc-pentapeptide (lipid
    intermediate I) to form undecaprenyl-pyrophosphoryl-MurNAc-
    (pentapeptide)GlcNAc (lipid intermediate II).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: UDP-N-acetylglucosamine + Mur2Ac(oyl-L-Ala-
    gamma-D-Glu-L-Lys-D-Ala-D-Ala)-diphosphoundecaprenol = UDP +
    GlcNAc-(1->4)-Mur2Ac(oyl-L-Ala-gamma-D-Glu-L-Lys-D-Ala-D-Ala)-
    diphosphoundecaprenol.
-!- PATHWAY: Glycan biosynthesis; peptidoglycan biosynthesis.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; peripheral membrane
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyltransferase 28 family. MurG
    subfamily.
 GO:0009252; P:peptidoglycan biosynthesis; IEA:HAMAP.
3D-structure; Cell cycle; Cell division; Cell shape; Cell wall;
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Glycosyltransferase;
Inner membrane; Membrane; Peptidoglycan synthesis; Transferase.
TMZERO
