AC   P08590; Q9NRS8;
Myosin light polypeptide 3 (Myosin light chain 1, slow-twitch muscle
B/ventricular isoform) (MLC1SB) (Ventricular/slow twitch myosin alkali
light chain) (Cardiac myosin light chain-1) (CMLC1).
"Molecular cloning and complete nucleotide sequence of a human
ventricular myosin light chain 1.";
"Molecular cloning and characterization of human atrial and
ventricular myosin alkali light chain cDNA clones.";
"Human ventricular/slow twitch myosin alkali light chain gene
characterization, sequence, and chromosomal location.";
"The sequence of human cardiac myosin light chain I (CMLC-1) from a
Chinese patient and the preparation of monoclonal antibody to
CHCMLC1.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"The major protein expression profile and two-dimensional protein
database of human heart.";
"Mutations in either the essential or regulatory light chains of
myosin are associated with a rare myopathy in human heart and skeletal
muscle.";
"Myosin light chain mutation causes autosomal recessive cardiomyopathy
with mid-cavitary hypertrophy and restrictive physiology.";
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: distribution of disease genes, spectrum
of mutations, and implications for a molecular diagnosis strategy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Regulatory light chain of myosin. Does not bind calcium.
-!- SUBUNIT: Myosin is an hexamer of 2 heavy chains and 4 light
    chains.
-!- PTM: The N-terminus is blocked.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in MYL3 are the cause of familial hypertrophic
    cardiomyopathy type 8 (CMH8) [MIM:608751, 192600]; also designated
    HCM or FHC. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a heart disorder
    characterized by ventricular hypertrophy, which is usually
    asymmetric and often involves the interventricular septum. The
    prevalence of the disease in the general population is 0.2%. FHC
    is clinically heterogeneous, with inter- and intrafamilial
    variations ranging from benign to malignant forms with a high risk
    of cardiac failure and sudden cardiac death. CMH8 inheritance can
    be autosomal dominant or recessive.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in MYL3 are the cause of hypertrophic
    cardiomyopathy with mid-left ventricular chamber type 1 (MVC1)
    [MIM:608751]. MVC1 is a very rare variant of familial hypertrophic
    cardiomyopathy, characterized by mid-left ventricular chamber
    thickening.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 EF-hand domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy mutation
    database;
    URL="http://www.angis.org.au/Databases/Heart/heartbreak.html".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=MYL3".
 GO:0005859; C:muscle myosin complex; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008307; F:structural constituent of muscle; TAS:ProtInc.
Cardiomyopathy; Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation;
Motor protein; Muscle protein; Myosin; Repeat.
TMZERO
