AC   P17050;
Alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase precursor (EC 3.2.1.49) (Alpha-
galactosidase B).
"Human alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase-molecular cloning, nucleotide
sequence, and expression of a full-length cDNA. Homology with human
alpha-galactosidase A suggests evolution from a common ancestral
gene.";
"Structural organization and complete sequence of the human alpha-N-
acetylgalactosaminidase gene: homology with the alpha-galactosidase A
gene provides evidence for evolution from a common ancestral gene.";
"Molecular cloning of a full-length cDNA for human alpha-N-
acetylgalactosaminidase (alpha-galactosidase B).";
"Molecular cloning of two species of cDNAs for human alpha-N-
acetylgalactosaminidase and expression in mammalian cells.";
"A genome annotation-driven approach to cloning the human ORFeome.";
"The DNA sequence of human chromosome 22.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Photolabeling of the alpha-neuraminidase/beta-galactosidase complex
from human placenta with a photoreactive neuraminidase inhibitor.";
"Schindler disease: the molecular lesion in the alpha-N-
acetylgalactosaminidase gene that causes an infantile neuroaxonal
dystrophy.";
"The molecular lesion in the alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase gene that
causes angiokeratoma corporis diffusum with glycopeptiduria.";
"Human alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase (alpha-NAGA) deficiency: new
mutations and the paradox between genotype and phenotype.";
"A new case of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase deficiency with
angiokeratoma corporis diffusum, with Meniere's syndrome and without
mental retardation.";
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Hydrolysis of terminal non-reducing N-acetyl-
    D-galactosamine residues in N-acetyl-alpha-D-galactosaminides.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Lysosome.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in NAGA are the cause of Schindler disease
    [MIM:609241]. Schindler disease is a form of NAGA deficiency
    characterized by early onset neuroaxonal dystrophy and
    neurological signs (convulsion during fever, epilepsy, psychomotor
    retardation and hypotonia). NAGA deficiency is typically
    classified in three main phenotypes: NAGA deficiency type I
    (Schindler disease or Schindler disease type I) with severe
    manifestations; NAGA deficiency type II (Kanzazi disease or
    Schindler disease type II) which is mild; NAGA deficiency type III
    (Schindler disease type III) characterized by mild-to-moderate
    neurologic manifestations. NAGA deficiency results in the
    increased urinary excretion of glycopeptides and oligosaccharides
    containing alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminyl moieties. Inheritance is
    autosomal recessive.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in NAGA are the cause of Kanzaki disease
    [MIM:609242]; also known as NAGA deficiency type II or Schindler
    disease type II. Kanzaki disease is an autosomal recessive
    disorder characterized by late onset, angiokeratoma corporis
    diffusum and mild intellectual impairment.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Alpha-galactosidase B was first found to be an
    isoenzyme of alpha-galactosidases, but apparently it differs from
    alpha-galactosidase A in substrate specificity and is alpha-N-
    acetylgalactosaminidase.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 27 family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.3 sequence differs from that shown due to a
    frameshift in position 320.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=NAGA".
 GO:0008456; F:alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase activity; TAS:ProtInc.
Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation; Epilepsy; Glycoprotein;
Glycosidase; Hydrolase; Lysosome; Signal.
TMZERO
