AC   P26080;
Nucleoprotein.
"Evolution of influenza A virus nucleoprotein genes: implications for
the origins of H1N1 human and classical swine viruses.";
-!- FUNCTION: Encapsidates the negative strand viral RNA, protecting
    it from nucleases. The encapsidated genomic RNA is termed the
    ribonucleoprotein (RNP) and serves as template for transcription
    and replication. The RNP needs to be localized in the nucleus to
    start an infectious cycle, but is too large to diffuse through the
    nuclear pore complex. NP comprises at least 2 nuclear localization
    signals and is responsible of the active RNP import into the
    nucleus through the cellular importin alpha/beta pathway. Later in
    the infection, nucleus export of RNP are mediated through viral
    proteins NEP interacting with M1 which binds nucleoproteins. It is
    possible that the nucleoprotein binds directly exportin-1 (XPO1)
    and plays an active role in RNP nuclear export. M1 interaction
    with RNP seems to hide nucleoprotein's nuclear localization
    signals. Soon after a virion infects a new cell, M1 dissociates
    from the RNP under acidification of the virion driven by M2
    protein. Dissociation of M1 from RNP unmask nucleoprotein's
    nuclear localization signals, targeting the RNP to the nucleus (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homomultimerizes to form the nucleocapsid. May bind human
    exportin-1. Binds to viral genomic RNA. Protein-RNA contacts are
    mediated by a combination of electrostatic interactions between
    positively charged residues and the phosphate backbone and planar
    interactions between aromatic side chains and bases (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus.
-!- PTM: Late in virus-infected cells, may be cleaved from a 56-kDa
    protein to a 53-kDa protein by a cellular caspase. This cleavage
    might be a marker for the onset of apoptosis in infected cells or
    have a specific function in virus host interaction (By
    similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the influenza viruses nucleoprotein family.
Host-virus interaction; Nuclear protein; RNA-binding;
Viral nucleoprotein; Virion protein.
TMZERO
