AC   Q89933; O92927; Q77M21; Q77M26; Q77M32; Q783Q8; Q83520; Q83523;
AC   Q83526; Q83726; Q89890; Q91QN7; Q9IC39;
Nucleoprotein (Protein N) (Nucleocapsid protein) (NP protein).
"Infectious measles virus from cloned cDNA.";
"Comparison of sequences of the H, F, and N coding genes of measles
virus vaccine strains.";
"Evolution of the nucleoprotein and matrix genes from wild-type
strains of measles virus isolated from recent epidemics.";
"Rescue of measles viruses from cloned DNA.";
"New genetic group of measles virus isolated in the People's Republic
of China.";
"Comparison of predicted amino acid sequences of measles virus strains
in the Edmonston vaccine lineage.";
"The phosophoprotein of attenuated measles virus vaccine strain, AIK-
C, contributes to its temperature-sensitive phenotype.";
"The whole gene sequence of Measles virus.";
"Measles virus nucleoprotein induces cell-proliferation arrest and
apoptosis through NTAIL-NR and NCORE-FcgammaRIIB1 interactions,
respectively.";
-!- FUNCTION: Encapsidates the genome in a ratio of 1 N per 6
    ribonucleotides, protecting it from nucleases. The nucleocapsid
    (NC) has an helical structure with either 12.35 or 11.64 N per
    turn, approximately 20nm in diameter, with a hollow central cavity
    approximately 5nm in diameter. The encapsidated genomic RNA is
    termed the NC and serves as template for transcription and
    replication. During replication, encapsidation by N is coupled to
    RNA synthesis and all replicative products are resistant to
    nucleases. N is released in the blood following lysis of measles
    infected cells, it interacts then with human FCGR2B on immune
    cells, inducing apoptosis and blocking inflammatory immune
    response. Ntail binds to a protein on human thymic epithelial
    cells, termed Nucleoprotein Receptor (NR), inducing growth arrest.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homomultimerizes to form the nucleocapsid. Binds to viral
    genomic RNA. In nucleocapsid, binds the P protein and thereby
    positions the polymerase on the template. Interacts with human
    FCGR2B protein.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- DOMAIN: Ncore is globular and carries regions required for N self-
    assembly and RNA-binding. Ntail is an intrinsically disordered
    monomeric domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the paramyxoviruses nucleocapsid family.
Host-virus interaction; Ribonucleoprotein; RNA-binding;
Viral nucleoprotein; Virion protein.
TMZERO
