AC   P19545;
Protein Nef (Negative factor) (F-protein) (3'ORF) [Contains: C-
terminal core protein].
"Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 cellular host range, replication,
and cytopathicity are linked to the envelope region of the viral
genome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Early protein that seems to play a role in optimizing
    the host cell environment for viral replication without causing
    cell death by apoptosis. Enhances virus infectivity and
    pathogenicity (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Down-modulates surface MHC-I molecules. Internalized
    molecules are sequestred to the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Also
    decreases cell surface CD4 antigen by interacting with the Src
    family kinase LCK thereby inducing LCK-CD4 dissociation and by
    increasing clathrin-dependent endocytosis of this antigen to
    target it to lysosomal degradation. Peroxisomal acyl-coenzyme A
    thioester hydrolase 1 (PTE1) seems to be involved in this process.
    May serve as a direct bridge between CD4 and the cellular
    endocytic machinery by interacting with beta-COP and adaptins. In
    consequence, surface MHC-I and CD4 are decreased and infected
    cells are masked for immune recognition by cytotoxic T
    lymphocytes. Decreasing the number of viral receptors prevents
    reinfection by more HIV particles (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Bypasses host T-cell signaling by inducing a
    transcriptional program nearly identical to that of anti-CD3 cell
    activation. Interacts with the TCR-zeta chain to up-regulate the
    Fas ligand (FasL). Increasing surface FasL molecules and
    decreasing surface MHC-I molecules send attacking cytotoxic T-cell
    into apoptosis (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Protects the infected cell from apoptosis in order to
    keep it alive until the next virus generation is ready to strike.
    Inhibits the Fas and TNFR-mediated death signals by blocking
    MAP3K5. Interacts with p53 and decreases the half-life of the
    latter, protecting the infected cell against p53-mediated
    apoptosis. Inhibits the apoptotic signals regulated by the Bcl-2
    family proteins through the formation of a Nef/PI3-kinase/PAK2
    complex that induces phosphorylation of Bad (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer. Interacts with various cellular proteins
    including MAP3K5, beta-COP, PAK2, PACS1, the Src family kinases
    HCK and LCK, TCR-zeta chain, PTE1 and PI3-kinase. Interaction with
    PI3-kinase activates the Nef associated p21-activated kinase
    (PAK2) and leads to increased production of HIV-1. This
    interaction depends on the C-terminus of both proteins. Interacts
    and inhibits kinase activity of LCK and MAPK3. Binds to ATP6V1H,
    this interaction connects Nef to the endocytic machinery and
    facilitates the internalization of CD4 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; lipid-anchor; cytoplasmic
    side (By similarity). Cytoplasm; perinuclear region (By
    similarity). Virion (By similarity). Note=Associates with the
    inner plasma membrane through its N-terminal anchor domain. Also
    found in the paranuclear area, probably in the TGN. Correct
    localization requires PACS1. Also incorporated in virions at a
    rate of about 10 molecules per virion, where it is cleaved (By
    similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminal anchor domain is composed of the N-
    myristoyl glycine and of a cluster of positively charged amino
    acids. It is required for inner plasma membrane targeting of Nef
    and virion incorporation, and thereby for infectivity. This domain
    is also involved in binding to p53 (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The acidic cluster contains sorting information as it
    binds to the TGN sorting protein PACS1 (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The SH3-binding domain constituted of PxxP motifs mediates
    binding to several Src family proteins thereby regulating their
    tyrosine kinase activity. The same motifs also mediates the
    association with MAPK3, PI3-kinase and TCR-zeta (By similarity).
-!- PTM: The virion-associated Nef proteins are cleaved by the viral
    protease to release the soluble C-terminal core protein. Nef is
    probably cleaved concomitantly with viral structural proteins on
    maturation of virus particles (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Myristoylation is essential for inner plasma membrane
    targeting of Nef and virion incorporation and thereby for
    infectivity. Also required to reduce CD4 expression at the cell
    surface (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on serine residues, probably by host PKC.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: HIV-1 lineages are divided in three main groups, M
    (for Major), O (for Outlier), and N (for New, or Non-M, Non-O).
    The vast majority of strains found worldwide belong to the group
    M. Group O seems to be endemic to and largely confined to Cameroon
    and neighboring countries in West Central Africa, where these
    viruses represent a small minority of HIV-1 strains. The group N
    is represented by a limited number of isolates from Cameroonian
    persons. The group M is further subdivided in 9 clades or subtypes
    (A to D, F to H, J and K).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the lentiviruses Nef protein family.
AIDS; Apoptosis; Early protein; Host-virus interaction; Lipoprotein;
Membrane; Myristate; Phosphorylation; Repeat; SH3-binding;
Viral immunoevasion; Virion protein; Virulence.
TMZERO
