AC   P97334; Q9QZ60; Q9WV67;
Homeobox protein Nkx-2.3 (Homeobox protein NK-2 homolog C) (Nkx2-C)
(Homeobox protein NK-2 homolog 3).
"The mouse Nkx2-3 homeodomain gene is expressed in gut mesenchyme
during pre- and postnatal mouse development.";
"Homeodomain factor Nkx2-3 is required for normal development of the
gut-associated lymphoid tissue and the spleen.";
"Homeodomain factor Nkx2-3 controls regional expression of leukocyte
homing coreceptor MAdCAM-1 in specialized endothelial cells of the
viscera.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"NKX2.3 is required for MAdCAM-1 expression and homing of lymphocytes
in spleen and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue.";
"NK-2 class homeobox genes and pharyngeal/oral patterning: Nkx2-3 is
required for salivary gland and tooth morphogenesis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Transcriptional regulator essential for normal
    development and functions of the small intestine and spleen.
    Activates directly MADCAM1 expression. Required for homing of
    lymphocytes in spleen and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue. May
    have a role during pharyngeal organogenesis.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in spleen and intestine. Also
    expressed in salivary gland and tongue.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed in gut mesenchyme during pre- and
    postnatal development. Expressed as well in the pharyngeal floor
    and pouches, and in the oral and branchial arch ectoderm.
    Expression persisted in the developing thyroid until birth, in
    mucous forming cells of salivary glands and in odontogenic
    epithelium of the mandible.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the NK-2 homeobox family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 homeobox DNA-binding domain.
 GO:0030183; P:B cell differentiation; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0006955; P:immune response; IMP:MGI.
Developmental protein; DNA-binding; Homeobox; Nuclear protein;
Transcription; Transcription regulation.
TMZERO
