AC   Q07008;
Neurogenic locus notch homolog protein 1 precursor (Notch 1)
[Contains: Notch 1 extracellular truncation; Notch 1 intracellular
domain].
"A homolog of Drosophila Notch expressed during mammalian
development.";
"Notch1 and Notch3 instructively restrict bFGF-responsive multipotent
neural progenitor cells to an astroglial fate.";
"Notch2: a second mammalian Notch gene.";
"Expression patterns of Notch1, Notch2, and Notch3 suggest multiple
functional roles for the Notch-DSL signaling system during brain
development.";
-!- FUNCTION: Functions as a receptor for membrane-bound ligands
    Jagged1, Jagged2 and Delta1 to regulate cell-fate determination.
    Upon ligand activation through the released notch intracellular
    domain (NICD) it forms a transcriptional activator complex with
    RBP-J kappa and activates genes of the enhancer of split locus.
    Affects the implementation of differentiation, proliferation and
    apoptotic programs. May be important for follicular
    differentiation and possibly cell fate selection within the
    follicle. During cerebellar development, may function as a
    receptor for neuronal DNER and may be involved in the
    differentiation of Bergmann glia (By similarity). Acts
    instructively to control the cell fate determination of CNS
    multipotent progenitor cells, resulting in astroglial induction
    and neuron/oligodendrocyte suppression.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterodimer of a C-terminal fragment N(TM) and an N-
    terminal fragment N(EC) which are probably linked by disulfide
    bonds. Interacts with DNER, DTX1, DTX2 and RBPSUH. Also interacts
    with MAML1, MAML2 and MAML3 which act as transcriptional
    coactivators for NOTCH1 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein (By similarity). NICD: Nucleus (By similarity).
    Note=Following proteolytical processing NICD is translocated to
    the nucleus (By similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in the brain, kidney and spleen.
    Expressed in postnatal central nervous system (CNS) germinal zones
    and, in early postnatal life, within numerous cells throughout the
    CNS. Found in both subventricular and ventricular germinal zones.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: In the embryo, highest levels occur between
    days 12 and 14 and decrease rapidly to much lower levels in the
    adult.
-!- PTM: Synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum as an inactive form
    which is proteolytically cleaved by a furin-like convertase in the
    trans-Golgi network before it reaches the plasma membrane to yield
    an active, ligand-accessible form. Cleavage results in a C-
    terminal fragment N(TM) and a N-terminal fragment N(EC). Following
    ligand binding, it is cleaved by TNF-alpha converting enzyme
    (TACE) to yield a membrane-associated intermediate fragment called
    notch extracellular truncation (NEXT). This fragment is then
    cleaved by presenilin dependent gamma-secretase to release a
    notch-derived peptide containing the intracellular domain (NICD)
    from the membrane (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the NOTCH family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 5 ANK repeats.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 36 EGF-like domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 LNR (Lin/Notch) repeats.
 GO:0003700; F:transcription factor activity; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0016563; F:transcriptional activator activity; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0007221; P:activation of Notch receptor target transcr...; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0009790; P:embryonic development; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0048709; P:oligodendrocyte differentiation; IEP:RGD.
 GO:0045687; P:positive regulation of glial cell different...; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0042246; P:tissue regeneration; IEP:RGD.
3D-structure; Activator; ANK repeat; Calcium; Developmental protein;
Differentiation; EGF-like domain; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Notch signaling pathway; Nuclear protein;
Phosphorylation; Receptor; Repeat; Signal; Transcription;
Transcription regulation; Transmembrane.
TMONE
