AC   P03474;
Neuraminidase (EC 3.2.1.18).
"Complete nucleotide sequence of the neuraminidase gene of influenza B
virus.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of catalytic residues of influenza virus
neuraminidase as an aid to drug design.";
"Neuraminidase inhibitors for influenza.";
"Structures of aromatic inhibitors of influenza virus neuraminidase.";
"Novel aromatic inhibitors of influenza virus neuraminidase make
selective interactions with conserved residues and water molecules in
the active site.";
"A benzoic acid inhibitor induces a novel conformational change in the
active site of Influenza B virus neuraminidase.";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the removal of terminal sialic acid residues
    from viral and cellular glycoconjugates. Cleaves off the terminal
    sialic acids on the glycosylated HA during virus budding to
    facilitate virus release. Additionally helps virus spread through
    the circulation by further removing sialic acids from the cell
    surface. These cleavages prevent self-aggregation and ensure the
    efficient spread of the progeny virus from cell to cell.
    Otherwise, infection would be limited to one round of replication.
    Described as a receptor-destroying enzyme because it cleaves a
    terminal sialic acid from the cellular receptors. May facilitate
    viral invasion of the upper airways by cleaving the sialic acid
    moities on the mucin of the airway epithelial cells (By
    similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Hydrolysis of alpha-(2->3)-, alpha-(2->6)-,
    alpha-(2->8)- glycosidic linkages of terminal sialic residues in
    oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, glycolipids, colominic acid and
    synthetic substrates.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by the neuraminidase inhibitors
    zanamivir (Relenza) and oseltamivir (Tamiflu). These drugs
    interfere with the release of progeny virus from infected cells
    and are effective against all influenza strains. Resistance to
    neuraminidase inhibitors is quite rare.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Virion; virion membrane (By similarity).
    Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; single-pass type II membrane
    protein (By similarity). Note=Preferentially accumulates at the
    apical plasma membrane in infected polarized epithelial cells,
    which is the virus assembly site. In the virion, forms a mushroom-
    shaped spike on the surface of the membrane (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The influenza B genome consist of 8 RNA segments.
    Genetic variation of hemagglutinin and/or neuraminidase genes
    results in the emergence of new influenza strains. The mechanism
    of variation can be the result of point mutations or the result of
    genetic reassortment between segments of two different strains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 34 family.
3D-structure; Glycoprotein; Glycosidase; Hydrolase; Membrane;
Signal-anchor; Transmembrane; Virion protein.
TMONE
