AC   Q07571;
Neuraminidase (EC 3.2.1.18).
"Phylogenetic analysis of the N8 neuraminidase gene of influenza A
viruses.";
"Assembly and budding of influenza virus.";
"Neuraminidase inhibitors for influenza.";
"Sialobiology of influenza: molecular mechanism of host range
variation of influenza viruses.";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the removal of terminal sialic acid residues
    from viral and cellular glycoconjugates. Cleaves off the terminal
    sialic acids on the glycosylated HA during virus budding to
    facilitate virus release. Additionally helps virus spread through
    the circulation by further removing sialic acids from the cell
    surface. These cleavages prevent self-aggregation and ensure the
    efficient spread of the progeny virus from cell to cell.
    Otherwise, infection would be limited to one round of replication.
    Described as a receptor-destroying enzyme because it cleaves a
    terminal sialic acid from the cellular receptors. May facilitate
    viral invasion of the upper airways by cleaving the sialic acid
    moities on the mucin of the airway epithelial cells. Likely to
    plays a role in the budding process through its association with
    lipid rafts during intracellular transport. May additionally
    display a raft-association independent effect on budding. Plays a
    role in the determination of host range restriction on replication
    and virulence. Sialidase activity in late endosome/lysosome
    traffic seems to enhance virus replication.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Hydrolysis of alpha-(2->3)-, alpha-(2->6)-,
    alpha-(2->8)- glycosidic linkages of terminal sialic residues in
    oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, glycolipids, colominic acid and
    synthetic substrates.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 calcium ion (By similarity).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by the neuraminidase inhibitors
    zanamivir (Relenza) and oseltamivir (Tamiflu). These drugs
    interfere with the release of progeny virus from infected cells
    and are effective against all influenza strains. Resistance to
    neuraminidase inhibitors is quite rare.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Virion; virion membrane (By similarity).
    Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; single-pass type II membrane
    protein (By similarity). Note=Preferentially accumulates at the
    apical plasma membrane in infected polarized epithelial cells,
    which is the virus assembly site. Uses lipid rafts for cell
    surface transport and apical sorting. In the virion, forms a
    mushroom-shaped spike on the surface of the membrane (By
    similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: Intact N-terminus is essential for virion morphogenesis.
    Possess two apical sorting signals, one in the ectodomain, which
    is likely to be a glycan, and the other in the transmembrane
    domain. The transmembrane domain also plays a role in lipid raft
    association (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The influenza A genome consist of 8 RNA segments.
    Genetic variation of hemagglutinin and/or neuraminidase genes
    results in the emergence of new influenza strains. The mechanism
    of variation can be the result of point mutations or the result of
    genetic reassortment between segments of two different strains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 34 family.
Calcium; Glycoprotein; Glycosidase; Hydrolase; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Signal-anchor; Transmembrane; Virion protein.
TMONE
