AC   Q13510;
Acid ceramidase precursor (EC 3.5.1.23) (Acylsphingosine deacylase)
(N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase) (AC) (Putative 32 kDa heart
protein) (PHP32) [Contains: Acid ceramidase subunit alpha; Acid
ceramidase subunit beta].
"Molecular cloning and characterization of a full-length complementary
DNA encoding human acid ceramidase. Identification of the first
molecular lesion causing Farber disease.";
"A new gene family predicted by a novel human heart cDNA.";
"Human acid ceramidase gene.";
"The human acid ceramidase gene (ASAH): structure, chromosomal
location, mutation analysis, and expression.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Purification, characterization, and biosynthesis of human acid
ceramidase.";
"Identification and quantification of N-linked glycoproteins using
hydrazide chemistry, stable isotope labeling and mass spectrometry.";
"Human plasma N-glycoproteome analysis by immunoaffinity subtraction,
hydrazide chemistry, and mass spectrometry.";
"Elucidation of N-glycosylation sites on human platelet proteins: a
glycoproteomic approach.";
"Molecular analysis of acid ceramidase deficiency in patients with
Farber disease.";
"Mutation analysis of the acid ceramidase gene in Japanese patients
with Farber disease.";
-!- FUNCTION: Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine
    and free fatty acid.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: N-acylsphingosine + H(2)O = a carboxylate +
    sphingosine.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterodimer of one alpha and one beta subunit.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Lysosome.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Broadly expressed with highest expression in
    heart.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ASAH1 are the cause of Farber disease (FD)
    [MIM:228000]; also known as Farber lipogranulomatosis. This
    sphingolipid disease is characterized by subcutaneous lipid-loaded
    nodules, excruciating pain in the joints and extremities, marked
    accumulation of ceramide in lysosomes, and death by three years of
    age.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the acid ceramidase family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ASAH1".
 GO:0003824; F:catalytic activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006672; P:ceramide metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Hydrolase;
Lysosome; Polymorphism; Signal.
TMZERO
