AC   P59071;
Phospholipase A2 VRV-PL-VIIIa (EC 3.1.1.4) (Phosphatidylcholine 2-
acylhydrolase) (DPLA2).
"Primary sequence determination of the most basic myonecrotic
phospholipase A2 from the venom of Vipera russelli.";
"Purification and characterization of a major phospholipase A2 from
Russell's viper (Vipera russelli) venom.";
"Three-dimensional structure of a presynaptic neurotoxic phospholipase
A2 from Daboia russelli pulchella at 2.4 A resolution.";
"Regulation of catalytic function by molecular association: structure
of phospholipase A2 from Daboia russelli pulchella (DPLA2) at 1.9 A
resolution.";
"Design of specific peptide inhibitors of phospholipase A2: structure
of a complex formed between Russell's viper phospholipase A2 and a
designed peptide Leu-Ala-Ile-Tyr-Ser (LAIYS).";
"Structural basis of phospholipase A2 inhibition for the synthesis of
prostaglandins by the plant alkaloid aristolochic acid from a 1.7 A
crystal structure.";
"Crystal structure of a complex formed between a snake venom
phospholipase A(2) and a potent peptide inhibitor Phe-Leu-Ser-Tyr-Lys
at 1.8 A resolution.";
-!- FUNCTION: PA2 catalyzes the calcium-dependent hydrolysis of the 2-
    acyl groups in 3-sn-phosphoglycerides. This toxin shows neurotoxic
    symptoms and damages vital organs such as lung, liver and kidney.
    Displays edema-inducing activities when injected into the foot
    pads of mice and induces necrosis of muscle cells when injected
    into the thigh muscle.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Phosphatidylcholine + H(2)O = 1-
    acylglycerophosphocholine + a carboxylate.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 calcium ion.
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed by the venom gland.
-!- TOXIC DOSE: LD(50) is 5.3 mg/kg body weight by intraperitoneal
    injection into mice.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the phospholipase A2 family. Group II
    subfamily.
3D-structure; Calcium; Direct protein sequencing; Hydrolase;
Lipid degradation; Metal-binding; Neurotoxin; Presynaptic neurotoxin;
Toxin.
TMZERO
