AC   Q9UKZ9; Q9BRH3;
Procollagen C-endopeptidase enhancer 2 precursor (Procollagen COOH-
terminal proteinase enhancer 2) (Procollagen C-proteinase enhancer 2)
(PCPE-2).
"Identification and expression of a novel type I procollagen C-
proteinase enhancer protein gene from the glaucoma candidate region on
3q21-q24.";
"Identification and initial characterization of 5000 expressed
sequenced tags (ESTs) each from adult human normal and osteoarthritic
cartilage cDNA libraries.";
"The secreted protein discovery initiative (SPDI), a large-scale
effort to identify novel human secreted and transmembrane proteins: a
bioinformatics assessment.";
"Cloning of human full open reading frames in Gateway(TM) system entry
vector (pDONR201).";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Signal peptide prediction based on analysis of experimentally
verified cleavage sites.";
"PCOLCE2 encodes a functional procollagen C-proteinase enhancer
(PCPE2) that is a collagen-binding protein differing in distribution
of expression and post-translational modification from the previously
described PCPE1.";
-!- FUNCTION: Binds to the C-terminal propeptide of types I and II
    procollagens and may enhance the cleavage of that propeptide by
    BMP1.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with heparin with high affinity, and type I or
    II collagen.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in the heart, trabecular
    meshwork, pituitary gland, bladder, mammary gland, trachea and
    placenta and weakly expressed in the brain. Expressed in
    cartilage.
-!- PTM: O-glycosylated; contains sialic acid.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 CUB domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 NTR domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.5 (AAH06265) sequence differs from that shown due to
    a stop codon in position 277 which was translated as Glu to extend
    the sequence.
Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein; Heparin-binding;
Polymorphism; Repeat; Signal.
TMZERO
