AC   Q5R5B6;
Protein disulfide-isomerase precursor (EC 5.3.4.1) (PDI) (Prolyl 4-
hydroxylase subunit beta) (Cellular thyroid hormone-binding protein)
(p55).
-!- FUNCTION: This multifunctional protein catalyzes the formation,
    breakage and rearrangement of disulfide bonds. At the cell
    surface, seems to act as a reductase that cleaves disulfide bonds
    of proteins attached to the cell. May therefore cause structural
    modifications of exofacial proteins. Inside the cell, seems to
    form/rearrange disulfide bonds of nascent proteins. At high
    concentrations, functions as a chaperone that inhibits aggregation
    of misfolded proteins. At low concentrations, facilitates
    aggregation (anti-chaperone activity). May be involved with other
    chaperones in the structural modification of the TG precursor in
    hormone biogenesis. Also acts a structural subunit of various
    enzymes such as prolyl 4-hydroxylase and microsomal
    triacylglycerol transfer protein MTTP (By similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Catalyzes the rearrangement of -S-S- bonds in
    proteins.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer. Monomers and homotetramers may also occur.
    Also constitutes the structural subunit of prolyl 4-hydroxylase
    and of the microsomal triacylglycerol transfer protein MTTP in
    mammalian cells. Stabilizes both enzymes and retain them in the ER
    without contributing to the catalytic activity. Binds UBQLN1 (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum
    lumen (By similarity). Note=Highly abundant. In some cell types,
    seems to be also secreted or associated with the plasma membrane,
    where it undergoes constant shedding and replacement from
    intracellular sources. Localizes near CD4-enriched regions on
    lymphoid cell surfaces (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the protein disulfide isomerase family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 thioredoxin domains.
 GO:0003756; F:protein disulfide isomerase activity; IEA:EC.
Chaperone; Endoplasmic reticulum; Isomerase; Membrane;
Redox-active center; Repeat; Signal.
TMZERO
