AC   P24102; O80913;
Peroxidase 22 precursor (EC 1.11.1.7) (Atperox P22) (ATPEa) (Basic
peroxidase E).
"Nucleotide sequences of two genomic DNAs encoding peroxidase of
Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Structural diversity and transcription of class III peroxidases from
Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 2 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Gene structures of peroxidase isoenzymes in horseradish and
Arabidopsis thaliana and their expression.";
"Toward elucidating the global gene expression patterns of developing
Arabidopsis: parallel analysis of 8300 genes by a high-density
oligonucleotide probe array.";
"Cis-regulatory elements of the peroxidase gene in Arabidopsis
thaliana involved in root-specific expression and responsiveness to
high-salt stress.";
"Computational analyses and annotations of the Arabidopsis peroxidase
gene family.";
"Analysis and expression of the class III peroxidase large gene family
in Arabidopsis thaliana.";
-!- FUNCTION: Removal of H(2)O(2), oxidation of toxic reductants,
    biosynthesis and degradation of lignin, suberization, auxin
    catabolism, response to environmental stresses such as wounding,
    pathogen attack and oxidative stress. These functions might be
    dependent on each isozyme/isoform in each plant tissue.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Donor + H(2)O(2) = oxidized donor + 2 H(2)O.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 heme B (iron-protoporphyrin IX) group per
    subunit (By similarity).
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 calcium ions per subunit (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein (Probable). Vacuole
    (Probable). Note=Carboxy-terminal extension appears to target the
    protein to vacuoles.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Mainly expressed in roots.
-!- INDUCTION: Responsiveness to high-salt stress.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: There are 73 peroxidase genes in A.thaliana.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peroxidase family. Classical plant
    (class III) peroxidase subfamily.
Calcium; Glycoprotein; Heme; Hydrogen peroxide; Iron; Metal-binding;
Oxidoreductase; Peroxidase; Pyrrolidone carboxylic acid; Signal;
Vacuole.
TMZERO
