AC   Q9H1Y0; O60875; Q5JVR2; Q68DI4; Q9H2B8; Q9HCZ7;
Autophagy protein 5 (APG5-like) (Apoptosis-specific protein).
"Homology between a human apoptosis specific protein and the product
of APG5, a gene involved in autophagy in yeast.";
"A novel splicing isoform of human APG5.";
"The DNA sequence and analysis of human chromosome 6.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"A novel protein expressed in mammalian cells undergoing apoptosis.";
"A new protein conjugation system in human. The counterpart of the
yeast Apg12p conjugation system essential for autophagy.";
"Dissection of autophagosome formation using Apg5-deficient mouse
embryonic stem cells.";
-!- FUNCTION: Required for autophagy. Conjugates to ATG12 and
    associates with isolation membrane to form cup-shaped isolation
    membrane and autophagosome. The conjugate detaches from the
    membrane immediately before or after autophagosome formation is
    completed (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: May play an important role in the apoptotic process,
    possibly within the modified cytoskeleton. Its expression is a
    relatively late event in the apoptotic process, occurring
    downstream of caspase activity.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm. Note=Colocalizes with nonmuscle
    actin.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=Long;
      IsoId=Q9H1Y0-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=Short; Synonyms=APG5beta;
      IsoId=Q9H1Y0-2; Sequence=VSP_003791;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Ubiquitous. The mRNA is present at similar
    levels in viable and apoptotic cells, whereas the protein is
    dramatically highly expressed in apoptotic cells.
-!- INDUCTION: By apoptotic stimuli.
-!- PTM: Conjugated to ATG12; which is essential for autophagy, but is
    not required for association with isolation membrane.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ATG5 family.
 GO:0005776; C:autophagic vacuole; IDA:MGI.
Alternative splicing; Apoptosis; Autophagy; Ubl conjugation.
TMZERO
