AC   Q68801;
Genome polyprotein [Contains: Core protein p21 (Capsid protein C)
(p21); Core protein p19; Envelope glycoprotein E1 (gp32) (gp35);
Envelope glycoprotein E2 (NS1) (gp68) (gp70); p7; Protease NS2-3
(EC 3.4.22.-) (p23); Serine protease/NTPase/helicase NS3
(EC 3.4.21.98) (EC 3.6.1.15) (EC 3.6.1.-) (Hepacivirin) (NS3P) (p70);
Non-structural protein 4A (NS4A) (p8); Non-structural protein 4B
(NS4B) (p27); Non-structural protein 5A (NS5A) (p56); RNA-directed RNA
polymerase (EC 2.7.7.48) (NS5B) (p68)].
"Hepatitis C virus variants from Jakarta, Indonesia classifiable into
novel genotypes in the second (2e and 2f), tenth (10a) and eleventh
(11a) genetic groups.";
"Properties of the hepatitis C virus core protein: a structural
protein that modulates cellular processes.";
"Structural biology of hepatitis C virus.";
-!- FUNCTION: Core protein packages viral RNA to form a viral
    nucleocapsid, and promotes virion budding. Modulates viral
    translation initiation by interacting with HCV IRES and 40S
    ribosomal subunit. Also regulates many host cellular functions
    such as signaling pathways and apoptosis. Prevents the
    establishment of cellular antiviral state by blocking the
    interferon-alpha/beta (IFN-alpha/beta) and IFN-gamma signaling
    pathways and by inducing human STAT1 degradation. Thought to play
    a role in virus-mediated cell transformation leading to
    hepatocellular carcinomas. Interacts with, and activates STAT3
    leading to cellular transformation. May repress the promoter of
    p53, and sequester CREB3 and SP110 isoform 3/Sp110b in the
    cytoplasm. Also represses cell cycle negative regulating factor
    CDKN1A, thereby interrupting an important check point of normal
    cell cycle regulation. Targets transcription factors involved in
    the regulation of inflammatory responses and in the immune
    response: suppresses NK-kappaB activation, and activates AP-1.
    Could mediate apoptotic pathways through association with TNF-type
    receptors TNFRSF1A and LTBR, although its effect on death
    receptor-induced apoptosis remains controversial. Enhances TRAIL
    mediated apoptosis, suggesting that it might play a role in
    immune-mediated liver cell injury. Seric core protein is able to
    bind C1QR1 at the T-cell surface, resulting in down-regulation of
    T-lymphocytes proliferation. May transactivate human MYC, Rous
    sarcoma virus LTR, and SV40 promoters. May suppress the human FOS
    and HIV-1 LTR activity. May alter lipid metabolism by interacting
    with hepatocellular proteins involved in lipid accumulation and
    storage (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Envelope glycoproteins E1 and E2 are involved in virus
    attachment to the host cell as well as in virus endocytosis and
    fusion with host membrane. E2 inhibits human EIF2AK2/PKR
    activation, preventing the establishment of an antiviral state. E2
    is a viral ligand for CD209/DC-SIGN and CLEC4M/DC-SIGNR, which are
    respectively found on dendritic cells (DCs), and on liver
    sinusoidal endothelial cells and macrophage-like cells of lymph
    node sinuses. These interactions allow capture of circulating HCV
    particles by these cells and subsequent transmission to permissive
    cells. DCs are professional antigen presenting cells, critical for
    host immunity by inducing specific immune responses against a
    broad variety of pathogens. They act as sentinels in various
    tissues where they entrap pathogens and convey them to local
    lymphoid tissue or lymph node for establishment of immunity.
    Capture of circulating HCV particles by these SIGN+ cells may
    facilitate virus infection of proximal hepatocytes and lymphocyte
    subpopulations and may be essential for the establishment of
    persistent infection (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: P7 seems to be a polymeric ion channel protein
    (viroporin) and is inhibited by the antiviral drug amantadine.
    Also inhibited by long-alkyl-chain iminosugar derivatives.
    Essential for infectivity (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Protease NS2-3 is a cysteine protease responsible for
    the autocatalytic cleavage of NS2-NS3. Seems to undergo self-
    inactivation following maturation (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: NS3 displays three enzymatic activities: serine
    protease, NTPase and RNA helicase. NS3 serine protease, in
    association with NS4A, is responsible for the cleavages of NS3-
    NS4A, NS4A-NS4B, NS4B-NS5A and NS5A-NS5B. NS3/NS4A complex also
    prevents phosphorylation of human IRF3, thus preventing the
    establishment of dsRNA induced antiviral state. NS3 RNA helicase
    binds to RNA and unwinds dsRNA in the 3' to 5' direction, and
    likely RNA stable secondary structure in the template strand (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: NS4B induces a specific membrane alteration that serves
    as a scaffold for the virus replication complex. This membrane
    alteration gives rise to the so-called ER-derived membranous web
    that contains the replication complex (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: NS5A is a component of the replication complex involved
    in RNA-binding. Down-regulates viral IRES translation initiation.
    Mediates interferon resistance, presumably by interacting with and
    inhibiting human EIF2AK2/PKR. The hyperphosphorylated form of NS5A
    is an inhibitor of viral replication (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: NS5B is a RNA-dependent RNA polymerase that plays an
    essential role in the virus replication (By similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Hydrolysis of four peptide bonds in the viral
    precursor polyprotein, commonly with Asp or Glu in the P6
    position, Cys or Thr in P1 and Ser or Ala in P1'.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: N nucleoside triphosphate = N diphosphate +
    {RNA}(N).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: NTP + H(2)O = NDP + phosphate.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per NS3 protease domain (By
    similarity).
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per NS5A N-terminal domain (By
    similarity).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Activity of auto-protease NS2-3 is dependent on
    zinc ions and completely inhibited by EDTA. Serine protease NS3 is
    also activated by zinc ions (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Core protein is a homomultimer that binds the C-terminal
    part of E1. Interacts with numerous cellular proteins. Interacts
    with human STAT1, inducing its degradation and human STAT3,
    constitutively activating it. Associates with human LTBR and
    TNFRSF1A receptors and possibly induces apoptosis. Binds to human
    SP110 isoform 3/Sp110b, HNRPK, C1QR1, YWHAE, DDX3X, APOA2 and RXRA
    proteins. Interacts with human CREB3 nuclear transcription
    protein, triggering cell transformation. May interact with human
    p53. Also binds human cytokeratins KRT8, KRT18, KRT19 and VIM
    (vimentin). E1 and E2 glycoproteins form a heterodimer that binds
    to human LDLR, CD81 and SCARB1 receptors, but this binding is not
    sufficient for infection, some additional liver specific cofactors
    may be needed. E2 binds and inhibits human EIF2AK2/PKR. Also binds
    human CD209/DC-SIGN and CLEC4M/DC-SIGNR. p7 forms a homopolymer.
    NS2 forms a homodimer and seems to interact with all other
    nonstructural (NS) proteins. NS4A interacts with NS3 serine
    protease and stabilizes its folding. NS3-NS4A complex is essential
    for the activation of the latter and allows membrane anchorage of
    NS3. NS3 interacts with TANK-binding kinase TBK1. NS4B and NS5A
    form homodimers and seem to interact with all other nonstructural
    (NS) proteins. NS5A also interacts with human EIF2AK2/PKR, GRB2,
    PIK3R1 and with most Src-family kinases. NS5B is a homooligomer
    (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Note=The virion assembly and budding occurs
    from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane or ER-derived
    membranes. The C-terminal transmembrane domain of core protein
    contains an ER signal leading the nascent polyprotein to the ER
    membrane. The C-termini of E1, E2, and p7 membrane domains act as
    signal sequences. After cleavage by host signal peptidase, these
    membrane sequences retain at the C-terminus of the concerned
    proteins (core, E1, E2 and p7), serving as ER membrane anchors.
    Core protein is cytoplasmic. It is also located on mitochondrial
    and ER membranes, as well as at the surface of lipid droplets. A
    minor proportion is present in the nucleus. An unknown proportion
    is secreted. E1, E2, NS2 and NS4B are integral ER membrane
    proteins. The C-terminal transmembrane domains of envelope
    glycoproteins E1 and E2 form a hairpin structure before cleavage
    by host signal peptidase. A reorientation of the second
    hydrophobic stretch occurs after cleavage producing a single
    reoriented transmembrane domain. These events explain the final
    topology of these proteins. ER retention of E1 and E2 is leaky
    and, in overexpression conditions, a small fraction of both
    proteins reaches the plasma membrane. NS3 is associated to the ER
    membrane through its binding to NS4A. Membrane insertion of the
    membrane-anchored proteins NS4A, NS5A and NS5B occurs after
    processing by the NS3 protease. NS5A is perinuclear. A fraction of
    p7 localizes to the plasma membrane (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The transmembrane regions of envelope E1 and E2
    glycoproteins are involved in heterodimer formation, ER
    localization, and assembly of these proteins. Envelope E2
    glycoprotein contain a highly variable region called hypervariable
    region 1 (HVR1). E2 also contains two segments involved in CD81-
    binding. HVR1 is implicated in the SCARB1-mediated cell entry.
    CD81-binding regions may be involved in sensitivity and/or
    resistance to IFN-alpha therapy (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminal one-third of serine protease NS3 contains
    the protease activity. This region contains a zinc atom that does
    not belong to the active site, but may play a structural rather
    than a catalytic role. This region is essential for the activity
    of protease NS2-3, maybe by contributing to the folding of the
    latter. The helicase activity is located in the C-terminus of NS3
    (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo yield mature proteins.
    The structural proteins, core, E1, E2 and p7 are produced by
    proteolytic processing by host signal peptidases. The core protein
    is synthesized as a 21 kDa precursor which is retained in the ER
    membrane through the hydrophobic signal peptide. Cleavage by the
    signal peptide peptidase releases the 19 kDa mature core protein.
    The other proteins (p7, NS2-3, NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A and NS5B) are
    cleaved by the viral proteases (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Envelope E1 and E2 glycoproteins are highly N-glycosylated
    (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Core protein is phosphorylated by host PKC and PKA (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: NS5A is phosphorylated in a basal form termed p56. p58 is an
    hyperphosphorylated form of p56. p56 and p58 coexist in the cell
    in roughly equivalent amounts. Hyperphosphorylation is dependent
    on the presence of NS4A. Human AKT1, RPS6KB1/p70S6K, MAP2K1/MEK1
    and MAP2K6/MKK6 kinases may be responsible for NS5A
    phosphorylation (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Cell culture adaptation of the virus leads to
    mutations in NS5A, reducing its inhibitory effect on replication
    (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The virion is a nucleocapsid covered by a
    lipoprotein envelope. The nucleocapsid is composed of the core
    protein, forming an internal icosahedral coat that encapsidates
    the genomic RNA. The envelope contains two proteins: the envelope
    glycoproteins E1 and E2.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Core protein exerts viral interference on hepatitis
    B virus when HCV and HBV coinfect the same cell, by suppressing
    HBV gene expression, RNA encapsidation and budding (By
    similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 helicase C-terminal domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase C18 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S29 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 RdRp catalytic domain.
-!- CAUTION: There is a doubt concerning the orientation of the N-
    terminus of NS4B, which could be lumenal with a 5th transmembrane
    segment. The C-terminus of NS2 may be lumenal with a fourth
    transmembrane segment.
-!- CAUTION: The core gene probably also codes for alternative reading
    frame proteins (ARFPs). Many functions depicted for the core
    protein might belong to the ARFPs.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=euHCVdb; NOTE=The European HCV database;
    URL="http://euhcvdb.ibcp.fr".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=HCV databases;
    URL="http://hcv.lanl.gov/content/hcv-db/".
 GO:0017111; F:nucleoside-triphosphatase activity; IEA:EC.
Apoptosis; ATP-binding; Capsid protein; Endoplasmic reticulum;
Envelope protein; Glycoprotein; Helicase; Host-virus interaction;
Hydrolase; Interferon antiviral system evasion; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Mitochondrion; Multifunctional enzyme;
Nucleotide-binding; Nucleotidyltransferase; Oncogene; Phosphorylation;
Protease; Ribonucleoprotein; RNA replication; RNA-binding;
RNA-directed RNA polymerase; Serine protease; Thiol protease;
Transcription; Transcription regulation; Transferase; Transmembrane;
Viral nucleoprotein; Virion protein; Zinc.
TMFOURTEEN
