AC   P27276;
Structural polyprotein (PP) [Contains: Capsid protein VP2; p1; p2; p3;
p4; Protease VP4 (EC 3.4.21.-) (Non-structural protein VP4) (NS);
Capsid assembly protein VP3].
"Genome cloning and analysis of the large RNA segment (segment A) of a
naturally avirulent serotype 2 infectious bursal disease virus.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of Avibirnavirus VP4 gene.";
-!- FUNCTION: VP2 trimers form the shell (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Protease VP4 is a serine protease that cleaves the
    polyprotein to release the mature proteins (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: VP3 binds to viral double-strand RNA (dsRNA), both of
    the A segment and of the B segment. Might therefore be involved in
    genomic RNA packaging. Although it does not follow the icosahedral
    symmetry, VP3 controls the assembly of the T=13 capsid (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: p1 is a small peptide derived from pVP2 C-terminus. It
    is essential for the virus viability (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: p2 is a small peptide derived from pVP2 C-terminus. It
    is not essential for the virus viability, but viral growth is
    affected when missing (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: p3 is a small peptide derived from pVP2 C-terminus. It
    is not essential for the virus viability, but viral growth is
    affected when missing (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: p4 is a small peptide derived from pVP2 C-terminus. It
    is essential for the virus viability (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: VP2 is trimeric. VP3 interacts with VP1 in the cytoplasm
    (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages yield mature proteins. The
    capsid assembly seems to be regulated by polyprotein processing.
    The polyprotein is processed by protease VP4 into the major
    structural proteins of the virion, precursor of VP2 (pVP2) and
    VP3. During capsid assembly, the C-terminus of pVP2 is processed
    by VP4, giving rise to VP2, the external capsid protein and four
    small peptides that all stay closely associated with the capsid
    (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Birnavirus particles are about 60 nm in diameter
    and are composed of a single, non-enveloped, T=13 icosahedral
    shell, made of 260 VP2 trimers. The major components of the
    particles are VP2 and VP3. The capsid contains two genome segments
    A and B of double-strand RNA. Minor amounts of VP1, VP4, p1, p2,
    p3, p4 and trace amount of the polyprotein are also incorporated
    in the virion (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: This protein is encoded by the large RNA segment A
    coding for the structural polyprotein and VP5.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S50 domain.
Capsid protein; Hydrolase; Protease; Serine protease; Virion protein.
TMZERO
