AC   O52475;
Photosystem I P700 chlorophyll a apoprotein A2 (PsaB).
"Molecular cloning of the psaA and psaB genes for the core proteins of
photosystem I from the thermophilic cyanobacterium Mastigocladus
laminosus.";
-!- FUNCTION: PsaA and psaB bind P700, the primary electron donor of
    photosystem I (PSI), as well as the electron acceptors A0, A1 and
    FX. PSI is a plastocyanin/cytochrome c6-ferredoxin oxidoreductase,
    converting photonic excitation into a charge separation, which
    transfers an electron from the donor P700 chlorophyll pair to the
    spectroscopically characterized acceptors A0, A1, FX, FA and FB in
    turn. Oxidized P700 is reduced on the lumenal side of the
    thylakoid membrane by plastocyanin or cytochrome c6.
-!- COFACTOR: PSI electron transfer chain: 5 chlorophyll a, 1
    chlorophyll a', 2 phylloquinones and 3 4Fe-4S clusters. PSI core
    antenna: 90 chlorophyll a, 22 carotenoids, 3 phospholipids and 1
    galactolipid. P700 is a chlorophyll a/chlorophyll a' dimer, A0 is
    one or more chlorophyll a, A1 is one or both phylloquinones and FX
    is a shared 4Fe-4S iron-sulfur center (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: The psaA/B heterodimer binds the P700 chlorophyll special
    pair and subsequent electron acceptors. PSI consists of a core
    antenna complex that captures photons, and an electron transfer
    chain that converts photonic excitation into a charge separation.
    The cyanobacterial PSI reaction center is composed of one copy
    each of psaA,B,C,D,E,F,I,J,K,L,M and X, and forms trimeric
    complexes (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cellular thylakoid membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the psaA/psaB family.
 GO:0009055; F:electron carrier activity; IEA:HAMAP.
 GO:0000287; F:magnesium ion binding; IEA:HAMAP.
4Fe-4S; Chlorophyll; Chromophore; Electron transport; Iron;
Iron-sulfur; Magnesium; Membrane; Metal-binding; Photosynthesis;
Photosystem I; Thylakoid; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMELEVEN
