AC   Q9TTY5;
Platelet-activating factor receptor (PAF-R) (PAFr).
"Comparison of the coding sequence of the platelet-activating factor
receptor gene in three species.";
"Molecular characterization of bovine platelet-actvating factor
receptor transcripts and their detection in different tissues of
cattle.";
"Fluorometric detection of platelet activating factor receptor in
cultured oviductal epithelial and stromal cells and endometrial
stromal cells from bovine at different stages of the oestrous cycle
and early pregnancy.";
"Platelet-activating factor (PAF)-like activity, localization of PAF
receptor (PAF-R) and PAF-acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH) activity in bovine
endometrium at different stages of the estrous cycle and early
pregnancy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor for platelet activating factor, a chemotactic
    phospholipid mediator that possesses potent inflammatory, smooth-
    muscle contractile and hypotensive activity. Seems to mediate its
    action via a G protein that activates a phosphatidylinositol-
    calcium second messenger system. May be involved in the
    morphological and physical modifications of the oviduct and uterus
    during the estrus cycle and early pregnancy (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Found in oviductal epithelial and stroma
    cells. Levels in the oviduct are raised at days 2-4 of both
    pregnancy and of the estrus cycle. In the endometrium,
    localization is predominantly to the apical borders of glandular
    and luminal epithelial cells. Expressed at lower levels in
    endometrial stromal cells. Levels in the endometrium are increased
    at day 20 of pregnancy (at protein level).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0004992; F:platelet activating factor receptor activity; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019735; P:antimicrobial humoral response (sensu Verte...; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006935; P:chemotaxis; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007186; P:G-protein coupled receptor protein signalin...; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006954; P:inflammatory response; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007565; P:pregnancy; IEP:UniProtKB.
Chemotaxis; G-protein coupled receptor; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Pregnancy; Receptor; Transducer; Transmembrane.
TMSEVEN
