AC   Q9VMD6; Q95U56;
Protein real-time.
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"A Drosophila full-length cDNA resource.";
"A novel family of mitochondrial proteins is represented by the
Drosophila genes slmo, preli-like and real-time.";
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Restricted to the developing gut and central
    nervous system (CNS).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Detected from at stage 7, where it is
    expressed in the early germ band. By stage 11, when the germ band
    is fully extended, it is expressed strongly in the ventral
    neuroectoderm, which represents the progenitor of the CNS. At this
    time, a small region of particularly strong expression is visible
    at the tip of the extended germ band marking the proctodeum (the
    primordial hindgut) and expression is also visible in the anterior
    midgut and the foregut primordial region known as the stomodeum.
    Expression then persists in both the emerging gut and nervous
    system during the next three developmental stages (12-14). Strong
    expression in the primordial midgut is rapidly down-regulated
    prior to stage 15, by when the presumptive midgut has closed both
    ventrally and dorsally and is largely established. However,
    expression persists in the hindgut as it continues to develop by
    projecting towards the antero-dorsal region of the embryo and is
    also evident in differentiating components of the foregut, which
    might include the stomatogastric nervous system. Interestingly, it
    is expressed strongly throughout the developing CNS and the
    intensity of this staining is maintained through stage 16 during
    major periods of developmental reorganization, while expression in
    regions of the gut is rapidly down-regulated. Expression continues
    in the CNS late into stage 17, but is also clearly reduced by the
    end of stage 17 immediately prior to hatching. Expressed during
    all subsequent developmental stages from first instar larvae
    through to adulthood.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 CRAL-TRIO domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 GOLD domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PRELI/MSF1 domain.
 GO:0005739; C:mitochondrion; IDA:UniProtKB.
Complete proteome; Mitochondrion.
TMZERO
