AC   Q6PEE3;
Ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase M2 subunit B (EC 1.17.4.1) (TP53-
inducible ribonucleotide reductase M2 B) (p53-inducible ribonucleotide
reductase small subunit 2-like protein) (p53R2).
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Mammalian p53R2 protein forms an active ribonucleotide reductase in
vitro with the R1 protein, which is expressed both in resting cells in
response to DNA damage and in proliferating cells.";
"Impaired function of p53R2 in Rrm2b-null mice causes severe renal
failure through attenuation of dNTP pools.";
-!- FUNCTION: Plays a pivotal role in cell survival by repairing
    damaged DNA in a p53/TP53-dependent manner. Supplies
    deoxyribonucleotides for DNA repair in cells arrested at G1 or G2.
    Contains an iron-tyrosyl free radical center required for
    catalysis. Forms an active ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) complex
    with RRM1 which is expressed both in resting and proliferating
    cells in response to DNA damage.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: 2'-deoxyribonucleoside diphosphate +
    thioredoxin disulfide + H(2)O = ribonucleoside diphosphate +
    thioredoxin.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 iron ions per subunit (By similarity).
-!- PATHWAY: Genetic information processing; DNA replication.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer with large (RRM1) subunit. Interacts with
    p53/TP53. Interacts with RRM1 in response to DNA damage (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (By similarity). Note=Translocates
    from cytoplasm to nucleus in response to DNA damage (By
    similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mice lacking Rrm2b develops normally until they is
    weaned but from then has growth retardation and early mortality.
    Pathological examination indicates that multiple organs has failed
    and die from severe renal failure by the age of 14 weeks.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ribonucleoside diphosphate reductase
    small chain family.
 GO:0004748; F:ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0009263; P:deoxyribonucleotide biosynthesis; IDA:MGI.
DNA damage; DNA repair; DNA replication; Iron; Metal-binding;
Nuclear protein; Oxidoreductase.
TMZERO
