AC   P23363;
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor precursor (BDNF).
"Human and rat brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3:
gene structures, distributions, and chromosomal localizations.";
"A rat brain-derived neurotrophic factor-encoding gene generates
multiple transcripts through alternative use of 5' exons and
polyadenylation sites.";
"Neurotrophic factors, their receptors, and the signal transduction
pathways they activate.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Multiple promoters direct tissue-specific expression of the rat BDNF
gene.";
"Evolutionary studies of the nerve growth factor family reveal a novel
member abundantly expressed in Xenopus ovary.";
-!- FUNCTION: Promotes the survival of neuronal populations that are
    all located either in the central nervous system or directly
    connected to it. Major regulator of synaptic transmission and
    plasticity at adult synapses in many regions of the CNS. The
    versatility of BDNF is emphasized by its contribution to a range
    of adaptive neuronal responses including long-term potentiation
    (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), certain forms of short-term
    synaptic plasticity, as well as homeostatic regulation of
    intrinsic neuronal excitability (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomers and homodimers. Binds to NTRK2/TRKB (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- PTM: Converted into mature BDNF by plasmin (PLG) (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the NGF-beta family.
 GO:0008083; F:growth factor activity; TAS:RGD.
 GO:0005169; F:neurotrophin TRKB receptor binding; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0006120; P:mitochondrial electron transport, NADH to u...; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0007399; P:nervous system development; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0030182; P:neuron differentiation; TAS:RGD.
 GO:0048169; P:regulation of long-term neuronal synaptic p...; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0048172; P:regulation of short-term neuronal synaptic ...; IDA:RGD.
Glycoprotein; Growth factor; Signal.
TMZERO
