AC   P09077; Q23990; Q24508; Q9V3Q3;
Homeotic protein Sex combs reduced.
"The homeotic gene Sex Combs Reduced of Drosophila: gene structure and
embryonic expression.";
"The sex combs reduced gene of Drosophila melanogaster has multiple
transcripts.";
"Complete sequence of the Antennapedia complex of Drosophila.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"Sequence of cDNA of homeodomain protein from sex combs reduced (Scr)
gene.";
"Cloning of the homeotic Sex Combs Reduced gene in Drosophila and in
situ localization of its transcripts.";
"A functional and structural analysis of the Sex combs reduced locus
of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Hox genes and the evolution of the arthropod body plan.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sequence-specific transcription factor which is part of
    a developmental regulatory system that provides cells with
    specific positional identities on the anterior-posterior axis.
    Controls the segmental transformation of the first to the second
    thoracic segment (prothorax to mesothorax) and of the labial palps
    into maxillary palps. In embryo, required for fusion of labial
    lobes and development of the T1 denticle belt. In adult,
    expression in the head is necessary for proper development of the
    labium. In the first thoracic segment of the adult, required for
    proper development of the sex comb and to suppress improper
    prothoracic wing development.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: In embryo, expressed in the labial and
    anterior prothoracic segments and the extreme posterior of the
    maxillary segment. In adult, expressed in the maxillary analgen of
    the eye and antennal imaginal disk and the labial and T1 leg
    imaginal disks.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Antp homeobox family. Deformed
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 homeobox DNA-binding domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 sequence differs from that shown due to frameshifts
    in positions 93 and 141.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.7 (AAA19240) sequence differs from that shown due to
    frameshifts in positions 35 and 79.
 GO:0007494; P:midgut development; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0007432; P:salivary gland determination; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0007379; P:segment specification; NAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0045498; P:sex comb development; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0007548; P:sex differentiation; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0007381; P:specification of segmental identity, labial...; TAS:FlyBase.
Complete proteome; Developmental protein; DNA-binding; Homeobox;
Nuclear protein.
TMZERO
