AC   P02775; Q6IBJ8;
Platelet basic protein precursor (PBP) (Small inducible cytokine B7)
(CXCL7) (Leukocyte-derived growth factor) (LDGF) (Macrophage-derived
growth factor) (MDGF) [Contains: Connective tissue-activating peptide
III (CTAP-III) (Low-affinity platelet factor IV) (LA-PF4); TC-2;
Connective tissue-activating peptide III(1-81) (CTAP-III(1-81)); Beta-
thromboglobulin (Beta-TG); Neutrophil-activating peptide 2(74) (NAP-
2(74)); Neutrophil-activating peptide 2(73) (NAP-2(73)); Neutrophil-
activating peptide 2 (NAP-2); TC-1; Neutrophil-activating peptide 2(1-
66) (NAP-2(1-66)); Neutrophil-activating peptide 2(1-63) (NAP-2(1-
63))].
"Cloning of cDNA coding for connective tissue activating peptide III
from a human platelet-derived lambda gt11 expression library.";
"Characterization of the human beta-thromboglobulin gene. Comparison
with the gene for platelet factor 4.";
"Localization of distal regulatory domains in the megakaryocyte-
specific platelet basic protein/platelet factor 4 gene locus.";
"Cloning of human full open reading frames in Gateway(TM) system entry
vector (pDONR201).";
"Generation and annotation of the DNA sequences of human chromosomes 2
and 4.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Characterization of human platelet basic protein, a precursor form of
low-affinity platelet factor 4 and beta-thromboglobulin.";
"Signal peptide prediction based on analysis of experimentally
verified cleavage sites.";
"Thrombocidins, microbicidal proteins from human blood platelets, are
C-terminal deletion products of CXC chemokines.";
"Structural and biological characteristics of connective tissue
activating peptide (CTAP-III), a major human platelet-derived growth
factor.";
"Exploring proteomes and analyzing protein processing by mass
spectrometric identification of sorted N-terminal peptides.";
"Complete covalent structure of human beta-thromboglobulin.";
"Thrombin-activated human platelets release two NAP-2 variants that
stimulate polymorphonuclear leukocytes.";
"Connective tissue activation. XXXIII. Biologically active cleavage
products of CTAP-III from human platelets.";
"A novel cleavage product of beta-thromboglobulin formed in cultures
of stimulated mononuclear cells activates human neutrophils.";
"Limited and defined truncation at the C-terminus enhances receptor
binding and degranulation activity of the neutrophil-activating
peptide 2 (NAP-2). Comparison of native and recombinant NAP-2
variants.";
"Generation of the neutrophil-activating peptide NAP-2 from platelet
basic protein or connective tissue-activating peptide III through
monocyte proteases.";
"Chemical synthesis, purification, and characterization of two
inflammatory proteins, neutrophil activating peptide 1 (interleukin-8)
and neutrophil activating peptide.";
"Novel C-terminally truncated isoforms of the CXC chemokine beta-
thromboglobulin and their impact on neutrophil functions.";
"Purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction
analysis of recombinant human neutrophil-activating peptide 2 (rhNAP-
2).";
"The crystal structure of recombinant human neutrophil-activating
peptide-2 (M6L) at 1.9-A resolution.";
-!- FUNCTION: LA-PF4 stimulates DNA synthesis, mitosis, glycolysis,
    intracellular cAMP accumulation, prostaglandin E2 secretion, and
    synthesis of hyaluronic acid and sulfated glycosaminoglycan. It
    also stimulates the formation and secretion of plasminogen
    activator by human synovial cells. NAP-2 is a ligand for CXCR1 and
    CXCR2, and NAP-2, NAP-2(73), NAP-2(74), NAP-2(1-66), and most
    potent NAP-2(1-63) are chemoattractants and activators for
    neutrophils. TC-1 and TC-2 are antibacterial proteins, in vitro
    released from activated platelet alpha-granules. CTAP-III(1-81) is
    more potent than CTAP-III desensitize chemokine-induced neutrophil
    activation.
-!- SUBUNIT: Beta-thromboglobulin is a homotetramer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- PTM: Proteolytic removal of residues 1-9 produces the active
    peptide connective tissue-activating peptide III (CTAP-III) (low-
    affinity platelet factor IV (LA-PF4)).
-!- PTM: Proteolytic removal of residues 1-13 produces the active
    peptide beta-thromboglobulin, which is released from platelets
    along with platelet factor 4 and platelet-derived growth factor.
-!- PTM: NAP-2(1-66) is produced by proteolytical processing, probably
    after secretion by leukocytes other than neutrophils.
-!- PTM: NAP-2(73) and NAP-2(74) seem not be produced by proteolytical
    processing of secreted precursors but are released in an active
    form from platelets.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the intercrine alpha (chemokine CxC)
    family.
 GO:0005355; F:glucose transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015758; P:glucose transport; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Antibiotic; Antimicrobial; Chemotaxis; Cytokine;
Direct protein sequencing; Growth factor; Mitogen; Signal.
TMZERO
