AC   P62395; P10409; P75641;
Secretion monitor precursor.
"Sequence analysis, transcriptional organization, and insertional
mutagenesis of the envA gene of Escherichia coli.";
"Nucleotide sequence of the secA gene and secA(Ts) mutations
preventing protein export in Escherichia coli.";
"Systematic sequencing of the Escherichia coli genome: analysis of the
0-2.4 min region.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"The first gene in the Escherichia coli secA operon, gene X, encodes a
nonessential secretory protein.";
"Regulation of Escherichia coli secA by cellular protein secretion
proficiency requires an intact gene X signal sequence and an active
translocon.";
"Revised translation start site for secM defines an atypical signal
peptide that regulates Escherichia coli secA expression.";
"Secretion monitor, SecM, undergoes self-translation arrest in the
cytosol.";
"The ribosomal exit tunnel functions as a discriminating gate.";
"Critical regions of secM that control its translation and secretion
and promote secretion-specific secA regulation.";
"Translocon 'pulling' of nascent secM controls the duration of its
translational pause and secretion-responsive secA regulation.";
"Control of SecA and SecM translation by protein secretion.";
-!- FUNCTION: Regulates secA expression by translational coupling of
    the secM secA operon. Ribosomes translating the C-terminal region
    of secM can disrupt an RNA repressor helix that normally blocks
    secA translation initiation, derepressing the expression of secA.
    Translational pausing of secM at Pro-166 under secretion-limiting
    conditions increases the duration of the disruption and thus
    increases secA expression. This is controlled by interaction of
    the secM signal peptide with secA and the translocon, possibly by
    secA pulling the paused secM out of the ribosome. The arrest
    sequence (150-FXXXXWIXXXXGIRAGP-166) is sufficient to cause arrest
    of unrelated proteins. Elongation arrest can be alleviated by
    mutations in the 23S rRNA or in ribosomal protein L22.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm; cytosol. Periplasm. Note=The
    active form is cytosolic, while the periplasmic form is rapidly
    degraded, mainly by the tail-specific protease.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the secM family.
Complete proteome; Periplasmic; Signal.
TMZERO
