AC   Q9IA95; Q4U3E3;
Secreted frizzled-related protein 3 precursor (sFRP-3) (Frizzled-
related protein 1) (FrzB-1).
"Cloning and expression of the Wnt antagonists Sfrp-2 and Frzb during
chick development.";
"Differential inhibition of Wnt-3a by Sfrp-1, Sfrp-2, and Sfrp-3.";
"The Wnt antagonist Frzb-1 regulates chondrocyte maturation and long
bone development during limb skeletogenesis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Soluble frizzled-related proteins (sFRPS) function as
    modulators of Wnt signaling through direct interaction with Wnts.
    They have a role in regulating cell growth and differentiation in
    specific cell types. SFRP3/FRZB appears to be involved in limb
    skeletogenesis. Antagonist of Wnt8 signaling. Regulates
    chondrocyte maturation and long bone development.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein (By similarity).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: At stage 7 of embryonic development,
    expressed in the neural plate with lower expression in the
    midline. At stage 9, expression restricted to the dorsal neural
    tube and cranial neural crest. At stage 12, expressed in the
    lateral plate mesoderm. In the developing trunk, expressed, from
    stages 9-12, in the ventral migrating neural crest with some
    expression at stage 12 in the dorsal streams From stage 15,
    expressed in the endocardial cells of the outflow tract of the
    developing heart. From stage 18, expression found in the
    epibranchial placodes, in endocardial and mesenchymal cells of the
    developing atrioventricular canal and of the outflow tract
    cushions. Expression in these regions of the developing heart
    continue until stage 26. During limb development, low expression
    found, by stage 18, in the developing limb buds, By stage 20,
    highly expressed in the ventral mesenchyme of both fore- and hind-
    limb buds. By stage 24, expression localized to the central core
    of the developing limb bud, which contains the chondrogenic
    precursors. Also expressed in the surrounding nonchondrogenic
    mesenchyme. Later expression confined to the perichondrium and to
    the epiphyses of the early developing skeletal elements.
-!- DOMAIN: The FZ domain is involved in binding with Wnt ligands (By
    similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the secreted frizzled-related protein
    (sFRP) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 FZ (frizzled) domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 NTR domain.
 GO:0005576; C:extracellular region; ISS:AgBase.
 GO:0016020; C:membrane; ISS:AgBase.
 GO:0017147; F:Wnt-protein binding; ISS:AgBase.
 GO:0030178; P:negative regulation of Wnt receptor signali...; ISS:AgBase.
 GO:0001501; P:skeletal development; ISS:AgBase.
Developmental protein; Differentiation; Glycoprotein; Signal;
Wnt signaling pathway.
TMZERO
