AC   P79858; P79859;
Sonic hedgehog protein (SHH) (Fragments).
"Evolutionary analyses of hedgehog and Hoxd-10 genes in fish species
closely related to the zebrafish.";
-!- FUNCTION: Intercellular signal essential for a variety of
    patterning events during development. Signal produced by the
    notochord that induces somite patterning, dorso-ventral patterning
    of the brain and early patterning of the developing eyes. Displays
    floor plate-inducing activity. Binds to the patched (PTC)
    receptor, which functions in association with smoothened (SMO), to
    activate the transcription of target genes. In the absence of SHH,
    PTC represses the constitutive signaling activity of SMO (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: N-product is active as a multimer (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Sonic hedgehog protein C-product: Secreted
    protein; extracellular space (By similarity). Sonic hedgehog
    protein N-product: Cell membrane; lipid-anchor (By similarity).
    Note=The C-terminal peptide diffuses from the cell, while the N-
    product either remains associated with lipid rafts at the cell
    surface, or forms freely diffusible active multimers with its
    hydrophobic lipid-modified N- and C-termini buried inside (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: The C-terminal domain displays an autoproteolysis activity
    and a cholesterol transferase activity. Both activities result in
    the cleavage of the full-length protein and covalent attachment of
    a cholesterol moiety to the C-terminal of the newly generated N-
    terminal fragment (N-product). The N-product is the active species
    in both local and long-range signaling, whereas the C-product has
    no signaling activity.
-!- PTM: Cholesterylation is required for N-product targeting to lipid
    rafts and multimerization (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-palmitoylation is required for N-product multimerization
    and full activity (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the hedgehog family.
Autocatalytic cleavage; Developmental protein; Hydrolase; Lipoprotein;
Membrane; Palmitate; Protease.
TMZERO
