AC   Q06986;
E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase SIAH2 (EC 6.3.2.-) (Seven in absentia
homolog 2) (Siah-2) (mSiah2).
"Isolation and characterisation of murine homologues of the Drosophila
seven in absentia gene (sina).";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Expression of Siah-2, a vertebrate homologue of Drosophila sina, in
germ cells of the mouse ovary and testis.";
"Proteasomal regulation of nuclear receptor corepressor-mediated
repression.";
"Pw1/Peg3 is a potential cell death mediator and cooperates with
Siah1a in p53-mediated apoptosis.";
"Alteration of the stability of Bag-1 protein in the control of
olfactory neuronal apoptosis.";
"Normal p53 function in primary cells deficient for Siah genes.";
"Generation and analysis of Siah2 mutant mice.";
"The coiled-coil domain is the structural determinant for mammalian
homologues of Drosophila Sina-mediated degradation of promyelocytic
leukemia protein and other tripartite motif proteins by the
proteasome.";
-!- FUNCTION: E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that mediates ubiquitination
    and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. E3
    ubiquitin ligases accept ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-
    conjugating enzyme in the form of a thioester and then directly
    transfers the ubiquitin to targeted substrates. Mediates E3
    ubiquitin ligase activity either through direct binding to
    substrates or by functioning as the essential RING domain subunit
    of larger E3 complexes. Triggers the ubiquitin-mediated
    degradation of many substrates, including proteins involved in
    transcription regulation (POU2AF1, PML, NCOR1), a cell surface
    receptor (DCC), an antiapoptotic protein (BAG1), and a protein
    involved in synaptic vesicle function in neurons (SYP). It is
    thereby involved in apoptosis, tumor suppression, cell cycle,
    transcription and signaling processes. Has some overlapping
    function with SIAH1. Triggers the ubiquitin-mediated degradation
    of TRAF2, whereas SIAH1 can not.
-!- PATHWAY: Ubiquitin conjugation; third step.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer. Interacts with UBE2E2. Interacts with VAV1,
    without mediating its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Interacts
    with CACYBP/SIP. Probable component of some large E3 complex
    possibly composed of UBE2D1, SIAH2, CACYBP/SIP, SKP1A, APC and
    TBL1X. Interacts with UBE2I. Interacts with PEG10, which may
    inhibit its activity (By similarity). Interacts with PEG3.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (By similarity). Nucleus (By
    similarity). Note=Predominantly cytoplasmic (By similarity).
    Partially nuclear (By similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed at low level in embryos and
    adults. Expressed in a specific population of germ cells within
    both the mouse ovary and testis. Absent in primordial oocytes but
    expressed in all growing oocytes, coincident with their
    recruitment from the pool of quiescent cells. Its level of
    expression increases as the oocytes mature. Expressed in Graafian
    follicles and in fertilized zygotes up until the two cell stage, a
    time of extensive maternal transcript degradation and zygotic gene
    activation. Expressed in the testis from postmeiotic spermatids.
-!- INDUCTION: May be induced by TP53/p53, suggesting that it may be
    required to modulate TP53 response. The relevance of such activity
    in vivo is however unclear and may not exist.
-!- DOMAIN: The RING-type zinc finger domain is essential for
    ubiquitin ligase activity.
-!- DOMAIN: The SBD domain (substrate-binding domain) mediates the
    homodimerization and the interaction with substrate proteins. It
    is related to the TRAF family (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the SINA (Seven in absentia) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 RING-type zinc finger.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 SIAH-type zinc finger.
 GO:0004842; F:ubiquitin-protein ligase activity; TAS:MGI.
Apoptosis; Cell cycle; Ligase; Metal-binding; Nuclear protein;
Ubl conjugation pathway; Zinc; Zinc-finger.
TMZERO
