AC   P50532;
Structural maintenance of chromosomes protein 4 (Chromosome-associated
protein C) (Chromosome assembly protein XCAP-C).
"A heterodimeric coiled-coil protein required for mitotic chromosome
condensation in vitro.";
"Condensins, chromosome condensation protein complexes containing
XCAP-C, XCAP-E and a Xenopus homolog of the Drosophila Barren
protein.";
"Phosphorylation and activation of 13S condensin by Cdc2 in vitro.";
"13S condensin actively reconfigures DNA by introducing global
positive writhe: implications for chromosome condensation.";
-!- FUNCTION: Central component of the condensin complex, a complex
    required for conversion of interphase chromatin into mitotic-like
    condense chromosomes. The condensin complex probably introduces
    positive supercoils into relaxed DNA in the presence of type I
    topoisomerases and converts nicked DNA into positive knotted forms
    in the presence of type II topoisomerase.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms an heterodimer with XCAP-E/SMC2. Component of the
    condensin complex, which contains the XCAP-E/SMC2 and XCAP-C/SMC4
    heterodimer, and three non SMC subunits that probably regulate the
    complex: XCAP-H/BRRN1, XCAP-D2/CNAP1 and XCAP-G/CAPG.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus (By similarity). Cytoplasm (By
    similarity). Note=In interphase cells, the majority of the
    condensin complex is found in the cytoplasm, while a minority of
    the complex is associated with chromatin. A subpopulation of the
    complex however remains associated with chromosome foci in
    interphase cells. During mitosis, most of the condensin complex is
    associated with the chromatin. At the onset of prophase, the
    regulatory subunits of the complex are phosphorylated by CDC2,
    leading to condensin's association with chromosome arms and to
    chromosome condensation. Dissociation from chromosomes is observed
    in late telophase (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The hinge domain, which separates the large intramolecular
    coiled coil regions, allows the heterodimerization with XCAP-E,
    forming a V-shaped heterodimer (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the SMC family. SMC4 subfamily.
 GO:0000796; C:condensin complex; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005634; C:nucleus; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005524; F:ATP binding; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0046982; F:protein heterodimerization activity; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007001; P:chromosome organization and biogenesis (sen...; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007076; P:mitotic chromosome condensation; ISS:UniProtKB.
ATP-binding; Cell cycle; Cell division; Coiled coil; DNA condensation;
Mitosis; Nuclear protein; Nucleotide-binding.
TMZERO
