AC   Q23972; Q9V3T0; Q9VSS8;
Protein Smaug.
"Smaug, a novel RNA-binding protein that operates a translational
switch in Drosophila.";
"Smaug, a novel and conserved protein, contributes to repression of
nanos mRNA translation in vitro.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"A Drosophila full-length cDNA resource.";
"smaug protein represses translation of unlocalized nanos mRNA in the
Drosophila embryo.";
"Overlapping but distinct RNA elements control repression and
activation of nanos translation.";
"The RNA-binding SAM domain of Smaug defines a new family of post-
transcriptional regulators.";
"Drosophila Cup is an eIF4E-binding protein that functions in Smaug-
mediated translational repression.";
"RNA recognition via the SAM domain of Smaug.";
-!- FUNCTION: Translation regulator that binds to the 3'untranslated
    region (UTR) of specific mRNAs such as nanos (nos) and prevent
    their translation. Prevents translation of unlocalized nos in the
    bulk cytoplasm via the recruitment of cup.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with oskar (osk). Binds to the 3'UTR of nos.
    Interacts with cup, which in turn recruits eIF4-E, leading to an
    indirect interaction between smg and eIF4-E that prevents mRNA
    translation.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: At syncitial blastoderm, it is located
    throughout the bulk cytoplasm and pole plasm. By the time of
    cellularization, it concentrates at the posterior pole.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed maternally. The protein accumulates
    during the first 3 hours after fertilization, and then decreases
    rapidly.
-!- DOMAIN: The SAM domain mediates the association with the 3'UTR of
    specific mRNAs.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 SAM (sterile alpha motif) domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.6 sequence differs from that shown due to the absence
    of a large region from Gly-793 to the end of the coding region
    that changes the frame.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0003730; F:mRNA 3'-UTR binding; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0000900; F:translation repressor activity, nucleic aci...; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0051236; P:establishment of RNA localization; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0016478; P:negative regulation of translation; IDA:UniProtKB.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Developmental protein;
Direct protein sequencing; Repressor; RNA-binding;
Translation regulation.
TMZERO
