AC   O52623;
Guanine nucleotide exchange factor sopE (Effector protein sopE) (Toxin
sopE).
"A substrate of the centisome 63 type III protein secretion system of
Salmonella typhimurium is encoded by a cryptic bacteriophage.";
"S. typhimurium encodes an activator of Rho GTPases that induces
membrane ruffling and nuclear responses in host cells.";
"Isolation of a temperate bacteriophage encoding the type III effector
protein SopE from an epidemic Salmonella typhimurium strain.";
"Type III secretion chaperone-dependent regulation: activation of
virulence genes by SicA and InvF in Salmonella typhimurium.";
"SopE and SopE2 from Salmonella typhimurium activate different sets of
RhoGTPases of the host cell.";
"Role of the Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 (SPI-1) protein InvB in
type III secretion of SopE and SopE2, two Salmonella effector proteins
encoded outside of SPI-1.";
"InvB is a type III secretion-associated chaperone for the Salmonella
enterica effector protein SopE.";
"Amino acids of the bacterial toxin SopE involved in G nucleotide
exchange on Cdc42.";
"Frequency and polymorphism of sopE in isolates of Salmonella enterica
belonging to the ten most prevalent serotypes in England and Wales.";
"Structural basis for the reversible activation of a Rho protein by
the bacterial toxin SopE.";
-!- FUNCTION: Activator for both CDC42 and RAC1 by directly engaging
    these Rho GTPases and acting as potent guanine nucleotide exchange
    factor (GEF). This activation results in actin cytoskeleton
    rearrangements and stimulates membrane ruffling, promoting
    bacterial entry into non-phagocytic cells. Also activates MAPK8,
    indicating that it is capable of stimulating signaling pathways
    that can lead to nuclear responses. Chaperone invB is required for
    secretion and translocation of sopE.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P60953:CDC42 (xeno); NbExp=2; IntAct=EBI-602254, EBI-81752;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Secreted via the type
    III secretion system 1 (SPI-1 TTSS).
-!- INDUCTION: Transcriptionally activated by invF in association with
    sicA.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Encoded within a prophage region, which is only
    present in very few Salmonella isolates. SopE-expressing
    S.typhimurium strains are associated with severe epidemics.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the GEF (guanine exchange factor) sopE
    family.
-!- CAUTION: sopE is not present in the complete genome strain LT2.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Direct protein sequencing; GTPase activation;
Guanine-nucleotide releasing factor; Virulence.
TMZERO
