AC   Q06187;
Tyrosine-protein kinase BTK (EC 2.7.10.2) (Bruton tyrosine kinase)
(Agammaglobulinaemia tyrosine kinase) (ATK) (B cell progenitor kinase)
(BPK).
"The gene involved in X-linked agammaglobulinaemia is a member of the
src family of protein-tyrosine kinases.";
"Genomic organization and structure of Bruton agammaglobulinemia
tyrosine kinase: localization of mutations associated with varied
clinical presentations and course in X chromosome-linked
agammaglobulinemia.";
"The genomic structure of human BTK, the defective gene in X-linked
agammaglobulinemia.";
"Genomic organization of the Btk gene and exon scanning for mutations
in patients with X-linked agammaglobulinemia.";
"Sixty-nine kilobases of contiguous human genomic sequence containing
the alpha-galactosidase A and Bruton's tyrosine kinase loci.";
"The DNA sequence of the human X chromosome.";
"Deficient expression of a B cell cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase in human
X-linked agammaglobulinemia.";
"BAP-135, a target for Bruton's tyrosine kinase in response to B cell
receptor engagement.";
"Identification and characterization of a novel SH3-domain binding
protein, Sab, which preferentially associates with Bruton's tyrosine
kinase (Btk).";
"Structure of the PH domain and Btk motif from Bruton's tyrosine
kinase: molecular explanations for X-linked agammaglobulinaemia.";
"Structure of the PH domain from Bruton's tyrosine kinase in complex
with inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate.";
"Solution structure of the SH3 domain from Bruton's tyrosine kinase.";
"BTKbase, mutation database for X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA).";
"BTKbase, mutation database for X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA).";
"Mutation detection in the X-linked agammaglobulinemia gene, BTK,
using single strand conformation polymorphism analysis.";
"Mutation analysis of the Bruton's tyrosine kinase gene in X-linked
agammaglobulinemia: identification of a mutation which affects the
same codon as is altered in immunodeficient xid mice.";
"Screening of genomic DNA to identify mutations in the gene for
Bruton's tyrosine kinase.";
"Unique mutations of Bruton's tyrosine kinase in fourteen unrelated X-
linked agammaglobulinemia families.";
"Structural basis for chromosome X-linked agammaglobulinemia: a
tyrosine kinase disease.";
"Structural basis for pleckstrin homology domain mutations in X-linked
agammaglobulinemia.";
"DNA-based mutation analysis of Bruton's tyrosine kinase gene in
patients with X-linked agammaglobulinaemia.";
"Identification of Btk mutations in 20 unrelated patients with X-
linked agammaglobulinaemia (XLA).";
"Mutation analysis in Bruton's tyrosine kinase, the X-linked
agammaglobulinaemia gene, including identification of an insertional
hotspot.";
"Improved oligonucleotide primer set for molecular diagnosis of X-
linked agammaglobulinaemia: predominance of amino acid substitutions
in the catalytic domain of Bruton's tyrosine kinase.";
"Characterization of germline mutations of the gene encoding Bruton's
tyrosine kinase in families with X-linked agammaglobulinemia.";
"A new point mutation involving a highly conserved leucine in the Btk
SH2 domain in a family with X linked agammaglobulinaemia.";
"Detection of a novel mutation in the SRC homology domain 2 (SH2) of
Bruton's tyrosine kinase and direct female carrier evaluation in a
family with X-linked agammaglobulinemia.";
"Identification of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) gene mutations and
characterization of the derived proteins in 35 X-linked
agammaglobulinemia families: a nationwide study of Btk deficiency in
Japan.";
"Mutations of the Btk gene in 12 unrelated families with X-linked
agammaglobulinemia in Japan.";
"Missense mutations affecting a conserved cysteine pair in the TH
domain of Btk.";
"Molecular and structural characterization of five novel mutations in
the Bruton's tyrosine kinase gene from patients with X-linked
agammaglobulinemia.";
"Mutations in btk in patients with presumed X-linked
agammaglobulinemia.";
"Mutation screening of the BTK gene in 56 families with X-linked
agammaglobulinemia (XLA): 47 unique mutations without correlation to
clinical course.";
"Mutations of the human BTK gene coding for Bruton tyrosine kinase in
X-linked agammaglobulinemia.";
"Identification of nine novel mutations in the Bruton's tyrosine
kinase gene in X-linked agammaglobulinaemia patients.";
-!- FUNCTION: Plays a crucial role in B-cell ontogeny. Transiently
    phosphorylates GTF2I on tyrosine residues in response to B-cell
    receptor cross-linking.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + a [protein]-L-tyrosine = ADP + a
    [protein]-L-tyrosine phosphate.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: Binds GTF2I through the PH domain. Interacts with SH3BP5
    via the SH3 domain.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P30273:FCER1G; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-624835, EBI-515289;
    P78347:GTF2I; NbExp=4; IntAct=EBI-624835, EBI-359622;
    Q04759:PRKCQ; NbExp=2; IntAct=EBI-624835, EBI-374762;
    O60239:SH3BP5; NbExp=3; IntAct=EBI-624835, EBI-624860;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (By similarity). Membrane;
    peripheral membrane protein (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Autophosphorylated on Tyr-222 and Tyr-550. The tyrosine
    phosphorylation of Tyr-222 may create a docking site for a SH2
    containing protein (By similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in BTK are the cause of X-linked
    agammaglobulinemia type 1 (XLA) [MIM:300300]. XLA is a humoral
    immunodeficiency disease which results in developmental defects in
    the maturation pathway of B-cells. Affected boys have normal
    levels of pre-B-cells in their bone marrow but virtually no
    circulating mature B-lymphocytes. This results in a lack of
    immunoglobulins of all classes and leads to recurrent bacterial
    infections like otitis, conjunctivitis, dermatitis, sinusitis in
    the first few years of life, or even some patients present
    overwhelming sepsis or meningitis, resulting in death in a few
    hours. Treatment in most cases is by infusion of intravenous
    immunoglobulin.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Tyr protein kinase family. TEC
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Btk-type zinc finger.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PH domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 protein kinase domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 SH2 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 SH3 domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=BTKbase; NOTE=BTK mutation db;
    URL="http://www.uta.fi/imt/bioinfo/BTKbase/".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=BTK".
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0045121; C:lipid raft; IDA:HGNC.
 GO:0005524; F:ATP binding; TAS:HGNC.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0004713; F:protein-tyrosine kinase activity; TAS:HGNC.
 GO:0019722; P:calcium-mediated signaling; TAS:HGNC.
 GO:0008624; P:induction of apoptosis by extracellular sig...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007242; P:intracellular signaling cascade; TAS:HGNC.
 GO:0007498; P:mesoderm development; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006468; P:protein amino acid phosphorylation; TAS:HGNC.
3D-structure; Acetylation; ATP-binding; Direct protein sequencing;
Disease mutation; Kinase; Metal-binding; Nucleotide-binding;
Phosphorylation; Polymorphism; SH2 domain; SH3 domain; Transferase;
Tyrosine-protein kinase; Zinc; Zinc-finger.
TMZERO
