AC   P09871; Q9UCU7; Q9UCU8; Q9UCU9; Q9UCV0; Q9UCV1; Q9UCV2; Q9UCV3;
AC   Q9UCV4; Q9UCV5; Q9UM14;
Complement C1s subcomponent precursor (EC 3.4.21.42) (C1 esterase)
[Contains: Complement C1s subcomponent heavy chain; Complement C1s
subcomponent light chain].
"Molecular cloning of cDNA for human complement component C1s. The
complete amino acid sequence.";
"Complete cDNA sequence of human complement Cls and close physical
linkage of the homologous genes Cls and Clr.";
"Human genes for complement components C1r and C1s in a close tail-to-
tail arrangement.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Two lineages of mannose-binding lectin-associated serine protease
(MASP) in vertebrates.";
"Complement genes C1r and C1s feature an intronless serine protease
domain closely related to haptoglobin.";
"Human complement component C1s. Partial sequence determination of the
heavy chain and identification of the peptide bond cleaved during
activation.";
"The serine proteinase chain of human complement component C1s.
Cyanogen bromide cleavage and N-terminal sequences of the fragments.";
"Chemical and functional characterization of a fragment of C1-s
containing the epidermal growth factor homology region.";
"Effect of lactoperoxidase-catalyzed iodination on the Ca(2+)-
dependent interactions of human C1s. Location of the iodination
sites.";
"Identification of the disulfide bonds of human complement C1s.";
"Structure of the catalytic region of human complement protease C1s:
study by chemical cross-linking and three-dimensional homology
modeling.";
"Molecular basis of a selective C1s deficiency associated with early
onset multiple autoimmune diseases.";
"Human plasma N-glycoproteome analysis by immunoaffinity subtraction,
hydrazide chemistry, and mass spectrometry.";
"Crystal structure of the catalytic domain of human complement c1s: a
serine protease with a handle.";
"X-ray structure of the Ca2+-binding interaction domain of C1s.
Insights into the assembly of the C1 complex of complement.";
-!- FUNCTION: C1s B chain is a serine protease that combines with C1q
    and C1s to form C1, the first component of the classical pathway
    of the complement system. C1r activates C1s so that it can, in
    turn, activate C2 and C4.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Cleavage of Arg-|-Ala bond in complement
    component C4 to form C4a and C4b, and Lys(or Arg)-|-Lys bond in
    complement component C2 to form C2a and C2b: the 'classical'
    pathway C3 convertase.
-!- SUBUNIT: C1 is a calcium-dependent trimolecular complex of C1q,
    C1r and C1s in the molar ration of 1:2:2. Activated C1s is an
    disulfide-linked heterodimer of a heavy chain and a light chain.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in C1S are the cause of selective C1s deficiency
    [MIM:120580]; that is associated with early onset multiple
    autoimmune diseases.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peptidase S1 family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 CUB domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 EGF-like domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 Sushi (CCP/SCR) domains.
 GO:0003816; F:complement component C1s activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008236; F:serine-type peptidase activity; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Calcium; Complement pathway; Direct protein sequencing;
EGF-like domain; Glycoprotein; Hydrolase; Hydroxylation;
Immune response; Innate immunity; Metal-binding; Polymorphism;
Protease; Repeat; Serine protease; Signal; Sushi.
TMZERO
