AC   O75443;
Alpha-tectorin precursor.
"Mutations in the human alpha-tectorin gene cause autosomal dominant
non-syndromic hearing impairment.";
"Mutation in the zonadhesin-like domain of alpha-tectorin associated
with autosomal dominant non-syndromic hearing loss.";
"Alpha-tectorin involvement in hearing disabilities: one gene -- two
phenotypes.";
"An alpha-tectorin gene defect causes a newly identified autosomal
recessive form of sensorineural pre-lingual non-syndromic deafness,
DFNB21.";
"A cysteine substitution in the zona pellucida domain of alpha-
tectorin results in autosomal dominant, postlingual, progressive, mid
frequency hearing loss in a Spanish family.";
"Association of clinical features with mutation of TECTA in a family
with autosomal dominant hearing loss.";
"Distinctive audiometric profile associated with DFNB21 alleles of
TECTA.";
-!- FUNCTION: One of the major non-collagenous components of the
    tectorial membrane (By similarity). The tectorial membrane is an
    extracellular matrix of the inner ear that covers the
    neuroepithelium of the cochlea and contacts the stereocilia
    bundles of specialized sensory hair cells. Sound induces movement
    of these hair cells relative to the tectorial membrane, deflects
    the stereocilia and leads to fluctuations in hair-cell membrane
    potential, transducing sound into electrical signals.
-!- SUBUNIT: May form homomeric filament after self-association or
    heteromeric filament after association with beta-tectorin.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; lipid-anchor; GPI-anchor;
    extracellular side (Probable). Note=Found in the non-collagenous
    matrix of the tectorial membrane (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: Zona pellucida domain may enable to form filaments.
-!- PTM: The presence of a hydrophobic C-terminus preceded by a
    potential cleavage site strongly suggests that tectorins are
    synthesized as glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked, membrane-bound
    precursors. Tectorins are targeted to the apical surface of the
    inner ear epithelia by the lipid and proteolytically released into
    the extracellular compartment.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in TECTA are the cause of autosomal dominant non-
    syndromic sensorineural deafness 8 (DFNA8) [MIM:601543].
-!- DISEASE: Defects in TECTA are the cause of autosomal dominant non-
    syndromic sensorineural deafness 12 (DFNA12) [MIM:601842].
-!- DISEASE: Defects in TECTA are the cause of autosomal recessive
    non-syndromic sensorineural deafness 21 (DFNB21) [MIM:603629].
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 NIDO domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 TIL (trypsin inhibitory-like) domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 VWFC domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 4 VWFD domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ZP domain.
 GO:0007605; P:sensory perception of sound; TAS:ProtInc.
Deafness; Disease mutation; Extracellular matrix; Glycoprotein;
GPI-anchor; Lipoprotein; Membrane; Polymorphism; Repeat; Signal.
TMZERO
