AC   Q62381; Q3UTT9; Q8BNP5;
Tolloid-like protein 1 precursor (EC 3.4.24.-) (mTll).
"Characterization of a novel gene product (mammalian tolloid-like)
with high sequence similarity to mammalian tolloid/bone morphogenetic
protein-1.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"Mammalian BMP-1/Tolloid-related metalloproteinases, including novel
family member mammalian Tolloid-like 2, have differential enzymatic
activities and distributions of expression relevant to patterning and
skeletogenesis.";
"The mammalian Tolloid-like 1 gene, Tll1, is necessary for normal
septation and positioning of the heart.";
"Bone morphogenetic protein-1 processes probiglycan.";
"Multiple bone morphogenetic protein 1-related mammalian
metalloproteinases process pro-lysyl oxidase at the correct
physiological site and control lysyl oxidase activation in mouse
embryo fibroblast cultures.";
-!- FUNCTION: Protease which processes procollagen C-propeptides, such
    as chordin, pro-biglycan and pro-lysyl oxidase. Required for the
    embryonic development, especially heart development. Predominant
    protease, which in the development, influences dorsal-ventral
    patterning and skeletogenesis.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per subunit (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein (Probable).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q62381-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q62381-2; Sequence=VSP_017199, VSP_017200;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in brain and kidney and
    weakly in lung, skeletal muscle. A perceptible level of expression
    is observed in heart and testis.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed at detectable level on E7, at
    increased level on E11, at maximal level on E15. Then, expression
    decreases from E17. Expressed in the developing neural tube.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peptidase M12A family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 5 CUB domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 EGF-like domains.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Developmental protein; Differentiation;
EGF-like domain; Glycoprotein; Hydrolase; Metal-binding;
Metalloprotease; Protease; Repeat; Signal; Zinc; Zymogen.
TMZERO
