AC   P22748;
Carbonic anhydrase 4 precursor (EC 4.2.1.1) (Carbonic anhydrase IV)
(Carbonate dehydratase IV) (CA-IV).
"Human carbonic anhydrase IV: cDNA cloning, sequence comparison, and
expression in COS cell membranes.";
"Genomic organization and localization of gene for human carbonic
anhydrase IV to chromosome 17q.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Carbonic anhydrase IV from human lung. Purification,
characterization, and comparison with membrane carbonic anhydrase from
human kidney.";
"Carbonic anhydrase IV: purification of a secretory form of the
recombinant human enzyme and identification of the positions and
importance of its disulfide bonds.";
"Carbonic anhydrase IV: role of removal of C-terminal domain in
glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchoring and realization of enzyme
activity.";
"Crystal structure of the secretory form of membrane-associated human
carbonic anhydrase IV at 2.8-A resolution.";
"Mutant carbonic anhydrase 4 impairs pH regulation and causes retinal
photoreceptor degeneration.";
-!- FUNCTION: Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. May stimulate
    the sodium/bicarbonate transporter activity of SLC4A4.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: H(2)CO(3) = CO(2) + H(2)O.
-!- COFACTOR: Zinc.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by acetazolamide.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with SLC4A4.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; lipid-anchor; GPI-anchor.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in the endothelium of the
    choriocapillaris in eyes (at protein level).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CA4 are the cause of retinitis pigmentosa 17
    (RP17) [MIM:600852]. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) [MIM:268000] leads
    to degeneration of retinal photoreceptor cells. Patients typically
    have night vision blindness and loss of midperipheral visual
    field. As their condition progresses, they lose their far
    peripheral visual field and eventually central vision as well.
    RP17 inheritance is autosomal dominant.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the alpha-carbonic anhydrase family.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0004089; F:carbonate dehydratase activity; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation; GPI-anchor;
Lipoprotein; Lyase; Membrane; Metal-binding; Retinitis pigmentosa;
Sensory transduction; Signal; Vision; Zinc.
TMZERO
