AC   Q9NUW8; Q2HXX4; Q96BK7; Q9NZM7; Q9NZM8;
Tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase 1 (EC 3.1.4.-) (Tyr-DNA
phosphodiesterase 1).
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"NIEHS-SNPs, environmental genome project, NIEHS ES15478, Department
of Genome Sciences, Seattle, WA (URL: http://egp.gs.washington.edu).";
"The DNA sequence and analysis of human chromosome 14.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Yeast gene for a Tyr-DNA phosphodiesterase that repairs topoisomerase
I complexes.";
"The tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase Tdp1 is a member of the
phospholipase D superfamily.";
"Conversion of phosphoglycolate to phosphate termini on 3' overhangs
of DNA double strand breaks by the human tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase
hTdp1.";
"Insights into substrate binding and catalytic mechanism of human
tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase (Tdp1) from vanadate and tungstate-
inhibited structures.";
"The crystal structure of human tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase, Tdp1.";
"Crystal structure of a transition state mimic for tdp1 assembled from
vanadate, DNA, and a topoisomerase I-derived Peptide.";
"Mutation of TDP1, encoding a topoisomerase I-dependent DNA damage
repair enzyme, in spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in repairing covalent topoisomerase I-DNA
    complexes. To modulate the topological changes induced during DNA
    replication and transcription, topoisomerase I transiently breaks
    a DNA strand and forms a covalent linkage between the active-site
    tyrosine and the 3'phosphate of the broken DNA strand. The strand
    is subsequently religated by nucleophilic attack of the 5'hydroxyl
    on this phosphodiester bond. Under certain conditions,
    nucleophilic attack of the 5'hydroxyl does not occur and the
    topoisomerase I forms a stalled covalent complex with the DNA.
    Efficient repair of these stalled complexes requires an enzyme
    that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the phosphodiester bond between
    the tyrosine residue and the DNA 3'phosphate. Has also been shown
    to remove glycolate from single-stranded DNA containing a 3'-
    phosphoglycolate, suggesting a role in repair of free-radical
    mediated DNA double-strand breaks (By similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Catalyzes the hydrolysis of a phosphodiester
    bond between a tyrosine residue and a DNA 3'phosphate.
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Ubiquitously expressed. Similar expression
    throughout the central nervous system (whole brain, amygdala,
    caudate nucleus, cerebellum, cerebral cortex, frontal lobe,
    hippocampus, medulla oblongata, occipital lobe, putamen,
    substantia nigra, temporal lobe, thalamus, nucleus accumbens and
    spinal cord) and increased expression in testis and thymus.
-!- DOMAIN: Composed of two similar domains that are related by a
    pseudo-2-fold axis of symmetry.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in TDP1 are the cause of spinocerebellar ataxia
    with axonal neuropathy (SCAN1) [MIM:607250]. SCAN1 is a hereditary
    autosomal recessive form of ataxia associated with neuropathy. The
    disease segregated as an autosomal recessive ataxia with
    peripheral axonal motor and sensory neuropathy, distal muscular
    atrophy, pes cavus and steppage gait as seen in Charcot-Marie-
    Tooth neuropathy. All affected individuals have normal
    intelligence. Loss-of-function mutations in TDP1 may cause SCAN1
    either by interfering with DNA transcription or by inducing
    apoptosis in postmitotic neurons.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the phospholipase D family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 PLD phosphodiesterase domains.
 GO:0005634; C:nucleus; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0017005; F:tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase activity; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006281; P:DNA repair; NAS:UniProtKB.
3D-structure; Disease mutation; DNA damage; DNA repair; Hydrolase;
Nuclear protein; Polymorphism; Repeat.
TMZERO
