AC   P0A884; P00470; Q2MA10;
Thymidylate synthase (EC 2.1.1.45) (TS) (TSase).
"Primary structure of the Escherichia coli thyA gene and its
thymidylate synthase product.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Complete nucleotide sequence of the Escherichia coli recC gene and of
the thyA-recC intergenic region.";
"Structure, multiple site binding, and segmental accommodation in
thymidylate synthase on binding dUMP and an anti-folate.";
"Characterization of a specific interaction between Escherichia coli
thymidylate synthase and Escherichia coli thymidylate synthase mRNA.";
"Amino acid substitution analysis of E. coli thymidylate synthase: the
study of a highly conserved region at the N-terminus.";
"Plastic adaptation toward mutations in proteins: structural
comparison of thymidylate synthases.";
"Water-mediated substrate/product discrimination: the product complex
of thymidylate synthase at 1.83 A.";
"An essential role for water in an enzyme reaction mechanism: the
crystal structure of the thymidylate synthase mutant E58Q.";
"Crystal structures of a marginally active thymidylate synthase
mutant, Arg 126-->Glu.";
"Inactivity of N229A thymidylate synthase due to water-mediated
effects: isolating a late stage in methyl transfer.";
"Site-directed ligand discovery.";
-!- FUNCTION: Provides the sole de novo source of dTMP for DNA
    biosynthesis. This protein also binds to its mRNA thus repressing
    its own translation.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + dUMP =
    dihydrofolate + dTMP.
-!- PATHWAY: Nucleotide biosynthesis; deoxyribonucleotide
    biosynthesis.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- PTM: The N-terminus is carboxylated.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the thymidylate synthase family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Methyltransferase; Nucleotide biosynthesis; Repressor; RNA-binding;
Transferase; Translation regulation.
TMZERO
