AC   O08721;
Netrin receptor UNC5A precursor (Unc-5 homolog A) (Unc-5 homolog 1).
"Vertebrate homologues of C. elegans UNC-5 are candidate netrin
receptors.";
"A ligand-gated association between cytoplasmic domains of UNC5 and
DCC family receptors converts netrin-induced growth cone attraction to
repulsion.";
"Expression patterns of the netrin receptor UNC5H1 among developing
motor neurons in the embryonic rat hindbrain.";
"Netrin-1 acts as a survival factor via its receptors UNC5H and DCC.";
"UNC5H1 induces apoptosis via its juxtamembrane region through an
interaction with NRAGE.";
"Surface expression of the netrin receptor UNC5H1 is regulated through
a protein kinase C-interacting protein/protein kinase-dependent
mechanism.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor for netrin required for axon guidance. Mediates
    axon repulsion of neuronal growth cones in the developing nervous
    system upon ligand binding. Axon repulsion in growth cones may be
    caused by its association with DCC that may trigger signaling for
    repulsion. It also acts as a dependence receptor required for
    apoptosis induction when not associated with netrin ligand.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with the cytoplasmic part of DCC. Interacts
    with MAGED1. Interacts with PRKCABP, possibly mediating some
    interaction with PKC.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein. Note=The interaction with PRKCABP regulates its surface
    expression and leads to its removal from surface of neurons and
    growth cones.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Mainly expressed in regions of differentiating
    neurons. Expressed at early stages of neural tube development in
    the ventral spinal cord. In developing hindbrain, it colocalizes
    with a number of cranial motor neuron subpopulations from
    embryonic E11 to E14, while DCC is expressed by motor neurons at
    E12. Also expressed in non-neural structures, such as the basal
    plane of the hindbrain and midbrain, in the developing
    hypothalamus, thalamus and in the pallidum.
-!- DOMAIN: The ZU5 domain mediates the interaction with MAGED1, which
    participates in the induction of apoptosis.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on cytoplasmic tyrosine residues (By
    similarity). Phosphorylated by PKC in vitro.
-!- PTM: Proteolytically cleaved by caspases during apoptosis. The
    cleavage does not take place when the receptor is associated with
    netrin ligand. Its cleavage by caspases is required to induce
    apoptosis.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the UNC-5 family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 death domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Ig-like (immunoglobulin-like) domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like)
    domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 TSP type-1 domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ZU5 domain.
Apoptosis; Developmental protein; Glycoprotein; Immunoglobulin domain;
Membrane; Phosphorylation; Receptor; Repeat; Signal; Transmembrane.
TMONE
