AC   P18314;
Urease alpha subunit (EC 3.5.1.5) (Urea amidohydrolase alpha subunit).
"Sequence of the Klebsiella aerogenes urease genes and evidence for
accessory proteins facilitating nickel incorporation.";
"Klebsiella aerogenes urease gene cluster: sequence of ureD and
demonstration that four accessory genes (ureD, ureE, ureF, and ureG)
are involved in nickel metallocenter biosynthesis.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of the active site cysteine in Klebsiella
aerogenes urease.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of Klebsiella aerogenes urease:
identification of histidine residues that appear to function in nickel
ligation, substrate binding, and catalysis.";
"In vitro activation of urease apoprotein and role of UreD as a
chaperone required for nickel metallocenter assembly.";
"Evidence for the presence of urease apoprotein complexes containing
UreD, UreF, and UreG in cells that are competent for in vivo enzyme
activation.";
"Requirement of carbon dioxide for in vitro assembly of the urease
nickel metallocenter.";
"Purification and activation properties of UreD-UreF-urease apoprotein
complexes.";
"GTP-dependent activation of urease apoprotein in complex with the
UreD, UreF, and UreG accessory proteins.";
"UreE stimulation of GTP-dependent urease activation in the UreD-UreF-
UreG-urease apoprotein complex.";
"Dual effects of ionic strength on Klebsiella aerogenes urease: pH-
dependent activation and inhibition.";
"Chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometric identification of sites
of interaction for UreD, UreF, and urease.";
"The crystal structure of urease from Klebsiella aerogenes.";
"Structures of the Klebsiella aerogenes urease apoenzyme and two
active-site mutants.";
"Characterization of the mononickel metallocenter in H134A mutant
urease.";
"Structures of Cys319 variants and acetohydroxamate-inhibited
Klebsiella aerogenes urease.";
"Chemical rescue of Klebsiella aerogenes urease variants lacking the
carbamylated-lysine nickel ligand.";
"Characterization of metal-substituted Klebsiella aerogenes urease.";
"Kinetic and structural characterization of urease active site
variants.";
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Urea + H(2)O = CO(2) + 2 NH(3).
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 nickel ions per subunit.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: The apoenzyme can be activated in vitro in the
    presence of nickel ions and carbon dioxide, which promotes
    carbamylation of Lys-217.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=2.3 mM for urea;
      Vmax=1.9 mmol/min/mg enzyme;
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 7.75;
-!- PATHWAY: Nitrogen metabolism; urea degradation; CO(2) and NH(3)
    from urea (urease route): single step [final step].
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotrimer of ureA (gamma), ureB (beta) and ureC
    (alpha) subunits. Three heterotrimers associate to form the active
    enzyme. The apoenzyme interacts with an accessory complex composed
    of ureD, ureF and ureG, which is required for the assembly of the
    nickel containing metallocenter of ureC. The ureE protein may also
    play a direct role as a metallochaperone in nickel transfer to the
    urease apoprotein.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Carbamylation allows a single lysine to coordinate two nickel
    ions.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the urease family.
3D-structure; Hydrolase; Metal-binding; Nickel.
TMZERO
