AC   Q9VIP8; Q95SA0;
Protein valois (MEP50 homolog).
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"A Drosophila full-length cDNA resource.";
"Drosophila valois encodes a divergent WD protein that is required for
Vasa localization and Oskar protein accumulation.";
"Valois, a component of the nuage and pole plasm, is involved in
assembly of these structures, and binds to Tudor and the
methyltransferase Capsuleen.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in specific localization of cytoplasmic
    proteins during the formation of pole plasm. Required for
    synthesis and/or stability of oskar protein (osk) and localization
    of tudor (tud) in both the nuage and posterior pole of the oocyte.
    Required for normal posterior localization of osk in later stages
    of oogenesis and for posterior localization of the vasa (vas)
    protein during the entire process of pole plasm assembly. May act
    by regulating the complex that contains the arginine N-
    methyltransferase csul.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with csul and tud.
-!- INTERACTION:
    Q9VID2:dimm; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-131470, EBI-166061;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: In oocytes, localizes to pole plasm and nuage
    (at protein level). Expressed stronger in the germline than in
    somatic cells. In the germarium it sometimes concentrates in
    perinuclear aggregates that disappear by stage 2 of oogenesis. At
    later stages, it is uniformly distributed in the nurse cells and
    oocyte, as well as in young embryos, with no particular enrichment
    at the posterior or inside the pole cells (at protein level).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed both maternally and zygotically.
    Abundant in ovaries, early embryos and adult females, but reduced
    in adult males.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 WD repeats.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0007349; P:cellularization; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0009880; P:embryonic pattern specification; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0048113; P:pole plasm assembly (sensu Insecta); NAS:FlyBase.
Complete proteome; Developmental protein; Differentiation; Oogenesis;
Repeat; WD repeat.
TMZERO
