AC   P04426;
Proto-oncogene protein Wnt-1 precursor.
"Structure and nucleotide sequence of the putative mammary oncogene
int-1; proviral insertions leave the protein-encoding domain intact.";
"Nucleotide sequence and expression in vitro of cDNA derived from mRNA
of int-1, a provirally activated mouse mammary oncogene.";
"Expression of multiple novel Wnt-1/int-1-related genes during fetal
and adult mouse development.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Targeted disruption of the murine int-1 proto-oncogene resulting in
severe abnormalities in midbrain and cerebellar development.";
"Expression of the proto-oncogene int-1 is restricted to specific
neural cells in the developing mouse embryo.";
"Expression of the proto-oncogene int-1 is restricted to postmeiotic
male germ cells and the neural tube of mid-gestational embryos.";
"The evolutionarily conserved porcupine gene family is involved in the
processing of the Wnt family.";
"Mouse cristin/R-spondin family proteins are novel ligands for the
Frizzled 8 and LRP6 receptors and activate beta-catenin-dependent gene
expression.";
-!- FUNCTION: Ligand for members of the frizzled family of seven
    transmembrane receptors. Probable developmental protein. May be a
    signaling molecule important in CNS development. Is likely to
    signal over only few cell diameters. Proeminent role in the
    induction of the mesencephalon and cerebellum. May play a crucial
    role in the morphogenesis of the neural tube and/or the early
    stages of CNS development.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with PORCN. Interacts with RSPO1, RSPO2 and
    RSPO3.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein; extracellular space;
    extracellular matrix.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Testis and mid-gestational embryos. In the
    testis, detected only in postmeiotic germ cells undergoing
    differentiation from round spermatids into mature spermatozoa. In
    the embryos, expression is restricted to the developing CNS in
    regions of the neural tube other than the telencephalon.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Accumulates throughout the neural plate at
    the anterior head folds of the 9 day embryo but only at its
    lateral tips in more posterior regions. Following neural tube
    closure, expression is restricted to specific regions of the
    dorsal wall of the brain ventricles and spinal cord, the ventral
    wall of the midbrain and the diencephalon, and the lateral walls
    of the neuroepithelium at the midbrain-hindbrain junction.
-!- DISEASE: Many mouse mammary tumors induced by mouse mammary tumor
    virus (MMTV) contain a provirus integrated into a host cell region
    which has been named INT-1 (now Wnt1).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Wnt family.
 GO:0005102; F:receptor binding; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0007267; P:cell-cell signaling; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0042472; P:inner ear morphogenesis; IGI:MGI.
 GO:0048664; P:neuron fate determination; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0009887; P:organ morphogenesis; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0007165; P:signal transduction; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0016055; P:Wnt receptor signaling pathway; IDA:MGI.
Developmental protein; Glycoprotein; Proto-oncogene; Signal;
Wnt signaling pathway.
TMZERO
