AC   P24806; O64956; Q39148; Q39149; Q41904; Q8LDQ0;
Xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase protein 24 precursor
(EC 2.4.1.207) (At-XTH24) (XTH-24) (Meristem protein 5) (MERI-5
protein) (MERI5 protein) (Endo-xyloglucan transferase) (Xyloglucan
endo-1,4-beta-D-glucanase).
"Molecular cloning and characterization of genes expressed in shoot
apical meristems.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 4 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Full-length cDNA from Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"An inventory of 1152 expressed sequence tags obtained by partial
sequencing of cDNAs from Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Differential expression of senescence-associated mRNAs during leaf
senescence induced by different senescence-inducing factors in
Arabidopsis.";
"Characterisation of two tomato fruit-expressed cDNAs encoding
xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase.";
"In vitro activities of four xyloglucan endotransglycosylases from
Arabidopsis.";
"A comprehensive expression analysis of all members of a gene family
encoding cell-wall enzymes allowed us to predict cis-regulatory
regions involved in cell-wall construction in specific organs of
Arabidopsis.";
"The ANGUSTIFOLIA gene of Arabidopsis, a plant CtBP gene, regulates
leaf-cell expansion, the arrangement of cortical microtubules in leaf
cells and expression of a gene involved in cell-wall formation.";
"The XTH family of enzymes involved in xyloglucan
endotransglucosylation and endohydrolysis: current perspectives and a
new unifying nomenclature.";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes xyloglucan endohydrolysis (XEH) and/or
    endotransglycosylation (XET). Cleaves and religates xyloglucan
    polymers, an essential constituent of the primary cell wall, and
    thereby participates in cell wall construction of growing tissues.
    May be required during development to modify the walls of cells
    under mechanical stress.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Breaks a beta-(1->4) bond in the backbone of a
    xyloglucan and transfers the xyloglucanyl segment on to O-4 of the
    non-reducing terminal glucose residue of an acceptor, which can be
    a xyloglucan or an oligosaccharide of xyloglucan.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein; extracellular space;
    apoplast (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed. Predominantly expressed in
    stems. Expressed in shoot apical meristems, also found in
    seedlings and meristems.
-!- INDUCTION: May be transcriptionally regulated by ANGUSTIFOLIA.
-!- PTM: Contains at least one intrachain disulfide bond essential for
    its enzymatic activity (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated; essential for its enzymatic activity.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 16 family. XTH group
    2 subfamily.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 sequence differs from that shown due to frameshifts
    in positions 158, 178, 183, 189, 190, 194 and 199.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.6 sequence differs from that shown due to frameshifts
    in positions 93 and 104.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=XTH-World;
    URL="http://labs.plantbio.cornell.edu/XTH/".
Apoplast; Cell wall; Glycoprotein; Glycosidase; Hydrolase; Signal;
Transferase.
TMZERO
