AC   Q9FRV1;
Basic endochitinase A precursor (EC 3.2.1.14) (Rye seed chitinase-a)
(RSC-a).
"Molecular cloning, functional expression, and mutagenesis of cDNA
encoding class I chitinase from rye (Secale cereale) seeds.";
"The complete amino acid sequence of chitinase-a from the seeds of rye
(Secale cereal).";
"Purification and some properties of three chitinases from the seeds
of rye (Secale cereale).";
"Positions of disulfide bonds in rye (Secale cereale) seed chitinase-
a.";
"Localization, accumulation, and antifungal activity of chitinases in
rye (Secale cereale) seed.";
"Antifungal activity of rye (Secale cereale) seed chitinases: the
different binding manner of class I and class II chitinases to the
fungal cell walls.";
-!- FUNCTION: Functions as a defense against chitin containing fungal
    pathogens. Binds the hyphal tips, lateral walls and septa of fungi
    and degrades mature chitin.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Random hydrolysis of N-acetyl-beta-D-
    glucosaminide 1,4-beta-linkages in chitin and chitodextrins.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is about 5.0. Stable between pH 4 and 8;
    Temperature dependence:
      Enzyme activity is retained almost fully under 40 degrees
      Celsius and completely destroyed at 70 degrees Celsius. At 60
      degrees Celsius the activity was over 80% compared to the
      untreated enzyme;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Localized in the aleurone cells of the seed
    endosperm (at protein level).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Levels increase from 23 to 40 days after
    flowering, and are maintained until maturation (at protein level).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 19 family. Chitinase
    class I subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 chitin-binding type-1 domain.
 GO:0005576; C:extracellular region; IC:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008061; F:chitin binding; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0004568; F:chitinase activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0016998; P:cell wall catabolism; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0050832; P:defense response to fungus; IDA:UniProtKB.
Antimicrobial; Carbohydrate metabolism; Chitin degradation;
Chitin-binding; Direct protein sequencing; Fungicide; Glycosidase;
Hydrolase; Plant defense; Polysaccharide degradation; Signal.
TMZERO
