AC   Q9Y240;
C-type lectin domain family 11 member A precursor (Stem cell growth
factor) (Lymphocyte secreted C-type lectin) (p47) (C-type lectin
superfamily member 3).
"Molecular cloning of a new secreted sulfated mucin-like protein with
a C-type lectin domain that is expressed in lymphoblastic cells.";
"Isolation and characterization of a cDNA for human, mouse, and rat
full-length stem cell growth factor, a new member of C-type lectin
superfamily.";
"Cloning, mapping, and genomic organization of the LSLCL gene,
encoding a new lymphocytic secreted mucin-like protein with a C-type
lectin domain: a new model of exon shuffling.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Stem cell growth factor: in situ hybridization analysis on the gene
expression, molecular characterization and in vitro proliferative
activity of a recombinant preparation on primitive hematopoietic
progenitor cells.";
"Expression of LSLCL, a new C-type lectin, is closely restricted, in
bone marrow, to immature neutrophils.";
-!- FUNCTION: Stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of
    hematopoietic precursor cells from various lineages, including
    erythrocytes, lymphocytes, granulocytes and macrophages. Acts
    synergistically with other cytokines, including IL-3, GCSF, GMCSF
    and FLT3 ligand. Suppresses SCF-stimulated erythrocyte
    proliferation.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm. Secreted protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in skeletal tissues including bone
    marrow, chondrocytes, primary ossification center-associated
    cells, the perichondrium and periosteum. Lower levels of
    expression were detected in spleen, thymus, appendix and fetal
    liver.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: In the bone marrow, expression is limited to
    immature neutrophils. Expression was not detected in circulating
    mature neutrophils.
-!- PTM: O-glycosylated. Probably sulfated on the O-glycans.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 C-type lectin domain.
 GO:0005576; C:extracellular region; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008083; F:growth factor activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005529; F:sugar binding; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008284; P:positive regulation of cell proliferation; IDA:UniProtKB.
Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein; Growth factor; Lectin;
Signal.
TMZERO
