AC   Q15021; Q8N6U3;
Condensin complex subunit 1 (Non-SMC condensin I complex subunit D2)
(Chromosome condensation-related SMC-associated protein 1)
(Chromosome-associated protein D2) (hCAP-D2) (XCAP-D2 homolog).
"Prediction of the coding sequences of unidentified human genes. IV.
The coding sequences of 40 new genes (KIAA0121-KIAA0160) deduced by
analysis of cDNA clones from human cell line KG-1.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"A human condensin complex containing hCAP-C-hCAP-E and CNAP1, a
homolog of Xenopus XCAP-D2, colocalizes with phosphorylated histone H3
during the early stage of mitotic chromosome condensation.";
"Chromosome condensation by a human condensin complex in Xenopus egg
extracts.";
"Identification of a chromosome-targeting domain in the human
condensin subunit CNAP1/hCAP-D2/Eg7.";
"A probability-based approach for high-throughput protein
phosphorylation analysis and site localization.";
"Phosphoproteome analysis of the human mitotic spindle.";
-!- FUNCTION: Regulatory subunit of the condensin complex, a complex
    required for conversion of interphase chromatin into mitotic-like
    condense chromosomes. The condensin complex probably introduces
    positive supercoils into relaxed DNA in the presence of type I
    topoisomerases and converts nicked DNA into positive knotted forms
    in the presence of type II topoisomerases. May target the
    condensin complex to DNA via its C-terminal domain.
-!- SUBUNIT: Component of the condensin complex, which contains the
    SMC2 and SMC4 heterodimer, and three non SMC subunits that
    probably regulate the complex: NCAPH/BRRN1, NCAPD2/CAPD2 and
    NCAPG. Interacts with histones H1 and H3.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus. Cytoplasm. Note=In interphase
    cells, the majority of the condensin complex is found in the
    cytoplasm, while a minority of the complex is associated with
    chromatin. A subpopulation of the complex however remains
    associated with chromosome foci in interphase cells. During
    mitosis, most of the condensin complex is associated with the
    chromatin. At the onset of prophase, the regulatory subunits of
    the complex are phosphorylated by CDC2, leading to condensin's
    association with chromosome arms and to chromosome condensation.
    Dissociation from chromosomes is observed in late telophase.
-!- DOMAIN: The C-terminal domain interacts with histones H1 and H3,
    and may be responsible for condensin complex targeting to mitotic
    chromosomes. This domain is independent from the bipartite nuclear
    localization signal, although they are contained within the same
    region.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by CDC2. Its phosphorylation, as well as that
    of NCAPH and NCAPG subunits, activates the condensin complex and
    is required for chromosome condensation (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the CND1 (condensin subunit 1) family.
 GO:0000793; C:condensed chromosome; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0000797; C:condensin core heterodimer; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005634; C:nucleus; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0042393; F:histone binding; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007076; P:mitotic chromosome condensation; NAS:UniProtKB.
Cell cycle; Cell division; Direct protein sequencing;
DNA condensation; Mitosis; Nuclear protein; Phosphorylation;
Polymorphism.
TMZERO
