AC   P12271;
Cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein (CRALBP).
"Cloning of the cDNAs encoding the cellular retinaldehyde-binding
protein from bovine and human retina and comparison of the protein
structures.";
"Molecular cloning and structural analysis of the human gene encoding
cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Structural and functional characterization of recombinant human
cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein.";
"Newfoundland rod-cone dystrophy, an early-onset retinal dystrophy, is
caused by splice-junction mutations in RLBP1.";
"Mutation of the gene encoding cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein
in autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa.";
"Bothnia dystrophy caused by mutations in the cellular retinaldehyde-
binding protein gene (RLBP1) on chromosome 15q26.";
-!- FUNCTION: Carries 11-cis-retinol and 11-cis-retinaldehyde as
    endogenous ligands and may be a functional component of the visual
    cycle.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Retina and pineal gland.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in RLBP1 are a cause of autosomal recessive
    retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) [MIM:268000]. Retinitis pigmentosa
    (RP) leads to degeneration of retinal photoreceptor cells.
    Patients typically have night vision blindness and loss of
    midperipheral visual field. As their condition progresses, they
    lose their far peripheral visual field and eventually central
    vision as well.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in RLBP1 are the cause of Bothnia retinal
    dystrophy [MIM:607475]; also known as Vasterbotten dystrophy. It
    is an autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Affected
    individuals show night blindness from early childhood with
    features consistent with retinitis punctata albescens and macular
    degeneration.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in RLBP1 are the cause of Newfoundland rod-cone
    dystrophy (NFRCD) [MIM:607476]. NFRCD is a retinal dystrophy
    reminiscent of retinitis punctata albescens but with a
    substantially lower age at onset and more-rapid and distinctive
    progression.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 CRAL-TRIO domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Mutations of the RLBP1 gene;
    NOTE=Retina International's Scientific Newsletter;
    URL="http://www.retina-international.com/sci-news/cralbp.htm".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=RLBP1".
 GO:0005625; C:soluble fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005488; F:binding; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007601; P:visual perception; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006776; P:vitamin A metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
Acetylation; Disease mutation; Retinitis pigmentosa; Retinol-binding;
Sensory transduction; Transport; Vision.
TMZERO
