AC   P08174; P09679; P78361;
Complement decay-accelerating factor precursor (CD55 antigen).
"Cloning of decay-accelerating factor suggests novel use of splicing
to generate two proteins.";
"SeattleSNPs. NHLBI HL66682 program for genomic applications, UW-
FHCRC, Seattle, WA (URL: http://pga.gs.washington.edu).";
"Cloning of human full-length CDSs in BD Creator(TM) system donor
vector.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Cloning and characterization of cDNAs encoding the complete sequence
of decay-accelerating factor of human complement.";
"Decay-acceleration factor (DAF; CD 55) in the brain of Alzheimer's
disease patients.";
"Characterization of the decay-accelerating factor gene promoter
region.";
"Improved method for the isolation and preliminary characterization of
human DAF (decay-accelerating factor).";
"Isolation of two forms of decay-accelerating factor (DAF) from human
urine.";
"Glycophospholipid membrane anchor attachment. Molecular analysis of
the cleavage/attachment site.";
"Complete determination of disulfide bonds localized within the short
consensus repeat units of decay accelerating factor (CD55 antigen).";
"Decay-accelerating factor CD55 is identified as the receptor for
echovirus 7 using CELICS, a rapid immuno-focal cloning method.";
"Proteomic analysis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane
proteins.";
"Modification-specific proteomics of plasma membrane proteins:
identification and characterization of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-
anchored proteins released upon phospholipase D treatment.";
"Molecular basis of reduced or absent expression of decay-accelerating
factor in Cromer blood group phenotypes.";
"GUTI: a new antigen in the Cromer blood group system.";
"Biochemical studies on red blood cells from a patient with the Inab
phenotype (decay-accelerating factor deficiency).";
"Mapping CD55 function. The structure of two pathogen-binding domains
at 1.7 A.";
"Complement regulation at the molecular level: the structure of decay-
accelerating factor.";
"Solution structure of a functionally active fragment of decay-
accelerating factor.";
-!- FUNCTION: This protein recognizes C4b and C3b fragments that
    condense with cell-surface hydroxyl or amino groups when nascent
    C4b and C3b are locally generated during C4 and c3 activation.
    Interaction of daf with cell-associated C4b and C3b polypeptides
    interferes with their ability to catalyze the conversion of C2 and
    factor B to enzymatically active C2a and Bb and thereby prevents
    the formation of C4b2a and C3bBb, the amplification convertases of
    the complement cascade.
-!- FUNCTION: Also acts as the receptor for echovirus 7 and related
    viruses (echoviruses 13, 21, 29 and 33).
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer (major form) and non-disulfide-linked, covalent
    homodimer (minor form).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Isoform 2: Cell membrane; lipid-anchor; GPI-
    anchor.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=2; Synonyms=DAF-2;
      IsoId=P08174-1; Sequence=Displayed;
      Note=GPI-anchored form;
    Name=1; Synonyms=DAF-1;
      IsoId=P08174-2; Sequence=VSP_001200;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed on the plasma membranes of all cell
    types that are in intimate contact with plasma complement
    proteins. It is also found on the surfaces of epithelial cells
    lining extracellular compartments, and variants of the molecule
    are present in body fluids and in extracellular matrix.
-!- DOMAIN: The first Sushi domain (SCR1) is not necessary for
    function. SCR2 and SCR4 provide the proper conformation for the
    active site on SCR3 (By similarity).
-!- PTM: The Ser/Thr-rich domain is heavily O-glycosylated.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: Responsible for the Cromer blood group system. It
    consists of at least 8 high-incidence (Cr(a), Tc(a), Dr(a), Es(a),
    WES(b), UMC, IFC and GUTI) and three low-incidence (Tc(b), Tc(c)
    and WES(a)) antigens that reside on DAF. In the Cromer phenotypes
    Dr(a-) and Inab there is reduced or absent expression of DAF,
    respectively. In the case of the Dr(a-) phenotype, a single
    nucleotide substitution within exon 5 accounts for two changes: a
    simple amino acid substitution, Leu-199 that is the basis of the
    antigenic variation, and an alternative splicing event that
    underlies the decreased expression of DAF in this phenotype. The
    Inab phenotype is a very rare one in which the red blood cells
    lack all Cromer system antigens. The red blood cells of
    individuals with Inab phenotype have a deficiency of DAF, but
    these individuals are not known to have any associated hematologic
    or other abnormalities.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the receptors of complement activation
    (RCA) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 4 Sushi (CCP/SCR) domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=BGMUT;
    NOTE=Blood group antigen gene mutation database";
    URL="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/mhc/xslcgi.fcgi?cmd=bgmut/systems_info&system=cromer".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005625; C:soluble fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Alternative splicing; Blood group antigen;
Complement pathway; Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein;
GPI-anchor; Immune response; Innate immunity; Lipoprotein; Membrane;
Polymorphism; Repeat; Signal; Sushi.
TMZERO
