AC   O14521; Q6IRW2;
Succinate dehydrogenase [ubiquinone] cytochrome b small subunit,
mitochondrial precursor (CybS) (Succinate-ubiquinone reductase
membrane anchor subunit) (QPs3) (CII-4) (Succinate dehydrogenase
complex subunit D) (Succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase cytochrome b
small subunit).
"Cytochrome b in human complex II (succinate-ubiquinone
oxidoreductase): cDNA cloning of the components in liver mitochondria
and chromosome assignment of the genes for the large (SDHC) and small
(SDHD) subunits to 1q21 and 11q23.";
"Characterization of the human SDHD gene encoding the small subunit of
cytochrome b (cybS) in mitochondrial succinate-ubiquinone
oxidoreductase.";
"Cloning of human full open reading frames in Gateway(TM) system entry
vector (pDONR201).";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Somatic and occult germ-line mutations in SDHD, a mitochondrial
complex II gene, in nonfamilial pheochromocytoma.";
"Mutations in SDHD, a mitochondrial complex II gene, in hereditary
paraganglioma.";
"Novel mutations and the emergence of a common mutation in the SDHD
gene causing familial paraganglioma.";
"Novel mutations in the SDHD gene in pedigrees with familial carotid
body paraganglioma and sensorineural hearing loss.";
"Nearly all hereditary paragangliomas in the Netherlands are caused by
two founder mutations in the SDHD gene.";
"Germline SDHD mutation in paraganglioma of the spinal cord.";
"Alterations of the SDHD gene locus in midgut carcinoids, Merkel cell
carcinomas, pheochromocytomas, and abdominal paragangliomas.";
"G12S and H50R variations are polymorphisms in the SDHD gene.";
"SDHD mutation analysis in seven German patients with sporadic carotid
body paraganglioma: one novel mutation, no Dutch founder mutation and
further evidence that G12S is a polymorphism.";
-!- PATHWAY: Carbohydrate metabolism; tricarboxylic acid cycle.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms part of complex II containing four subunits: a
    flavoprotein (FP), an iron-sulfur protein (IP) and a cytochrome b
    composed of two integral membrane proteins.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SDHD are a cause of hereditary paraganglioma
    type 1 (PGL1) [MIM:168000]; also known as familial non-chromaffin
    paraganglioma 1. Paraganglioma refers to rare and mostly benign
    tumors that arise from any component of the neuroendocrine system.
    PGL1 is a rare autosomal dominant disorder which is characterized
    by the development of mostly benign, highly vascular, slowly
    growing tumors in the head and neck. In the head and neck region,
    the carotid body is the largest of all paraganglia and is also the
    most common site of the tumors. Penetrance of PLG1 is incomplete
    when the disease is transmitted through fathers. No disease
    phenotype is transmitted maternally.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SDHD are a cause of pheochromocytoma
    [MIM:171300]. The pheochromocytomas are catecholamine-producing,
    chromaffin tumors that arise in the adrenal medulla in 90% of
    cases. In the remaining 10% of cases, they develop in extra-
    adrenal sympathetic ganglia and may be referred to as
    "paraganglioma." Pheochromocytoma usually presents with
    hypertension. Approximately 10% of pheochromocytoma is hereditary.
    Although pheochromocytoma susceptibility may be associated with
    germline mutations in the tumor-suppressor genes VHL and NF1 and
    in the proto-oncogene RET, the genetic basis for most cases of
    nonsyndromic familial pheochromocytoma is unknown.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SDHD are involved in intestinal carcinoid
    tumor [MIM:114900]. A carcinoid tumor is a yellow circumscribed
    tumor arising from enterochromaffin cells, in the small intestine.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the CybS family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Atlas of Genetics and Cytogenetics in Oncology
    and Haematology;
    URL="http://atlasgeneticsoncology.org/Genes/SDHDID390.html".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SDHD".
 GO:0005740; C:mitochondrial envelope; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005743; C:mitochondrial inner membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005739; C:mitochondrion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0009055; F:electron carrier activity; TAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0000104; F:succinate dehydrogenase activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006099; P:tricarboxylic acid cycle; IDA:UniProtKB.
Disease mutation; Electron transport; Heme; Iron; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Mitochondrion; Polymorphism; Transit peptide;
Transmembrane; Transport; Tricarboxylic acid cycle.
TMTWO
