AC   O75923; O75696; Q9UEN7;
Dysferlin (Dystrophy-associated fer-1-like protein) (Fer-1-like
protein 1).
"Dysferlin, a novel skeletal muscle gene, is mutated in Miyoshi
myopathy and limb girdle muscular dystrophy.";
"A gene related to Caenorhabditis elegans spermatogenesis factor fer-1
is mutated in limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B.";
"Dysferlin is a plasma membrane protein and is expressed early in
human development.";
"Dysferlin is a surface membrane-associated protein that is absent in
Miyoshi myopathy.";
"Identical mutation in patients with limb girdle muscular dystrophy
type 2B or Miyoshi myopathy suggests a role for modifier gene(s).";
"Distal anterior compartment myopathy: a dysferlin mutation causing a
new muscular dystrophy phenotype.";
"Genomic organization of the dysferlin gene and novel mutations in
Miyoshi myopathy.";
"Molecular analysis of LGMD-2B and MM patients: identification of
novel DYSF mutations and possible founder effect in the Italian
population.";
"Dysferlin mutations in LGMD2B, Miyoshi myopathy, and atypical
dysferlinopathies.";
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; sarcolemma; single-pass type
    II membrane protein (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in skeletal muscle. Also
    found in heart, placenta and at lower levels in liver, lung,
    kidney and pancreas.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expression in limb tissue from 5-6 weeks
    embryos; persists throughout development.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in DYSF are the cause of autosomal recessive limb
    girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B) [MIM:253601]. Type 2
    limb girdle muscular dystrophies represent a genetically
    heterogeneous group of diseases with varying degrees of severity
    depending on age at onset and rate of progression. LGMD2B is
    characterized by weakness and atrophy starting in the proximal
    pelvifemoral muscles, with onset in the late teens or later,
    massive elevation of serum creatine kinase levels and slow
    progression. Scapular muscle involvement is minor and not present
    at onset. Upper limb girdle involvement follows some years after
    the onset in lower limbs.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in DYSF are the cause of Miyoshi myopathy (MM)
    [MIM:254130]. This type of autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy
    involves the distal lower limb musculature. It is characterized by
    weakness that initially affects the gastrocnemius muscle during
    early adulthood. Otherwise the phenotype overlaps with LGMD2B,
    especially in age at onset and creatine kinase elevation.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in DYSF are the cause of distal myopathy with
    anterior tibial onset (DMAT) [MIM:606768]. Onset of the disorder
    is between 14 and 28 years of age and the anterior tibial muscles
    are the first muscle group to be involved. Inheritance is
    autosomal recessive.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ferlin family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 5 C2 domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Leiden Muscular Dystrophy pages; NOTE=Dysferlin;
    URL="http://www.dmd.nl/dysf_home.html".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=DYSF".
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006936; P:muscle contraction; TAS:ProtInc.
Disease mutation; Membrane; Polymorphism; Repeat; Transmembrane.
TMONE
