AC   P29547; Q9URC6;
Elongation factor 1-gamma 1 (EF-1-gamma 1) (Translation elongation
factor 1B gamma 1) (Eukaryotic elongation factor 1Bgamma 1)
(eEF1Bgamma 1) (Calcium and membrane-binding protein 1) (Calcium
phospholipid-binding protein) (CPBP).
"DRS1 to DRS7, novel genes required for ribosome assembly and function
in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Cloning and genetic characterization of a calcium- and phospholipid-
binding protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is homologous to
translation elongation factor-1 gamma.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome XVI.";
"Calcium-dependent secretory vesicle-binding and lipid-binding
proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Global analysis of protein localization in budding yeast.";
"Global analysis of protein expression in yeast.";
"A homologue of elongation factor 1 gamma regulates methionine
sulfoxide reductase A gene expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"The crystal structure of the glutathione S-transferase-like domain of
elongation factor 1Bgamma from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
-!- FUNCTION: Subunit of the eukaryotic elongation factor 1 complex
    (eEF1). Probably plays a role in anchoring the complex to other
    cellular components. May be involved in transcriptional regulation
    of MXR1.
-!- PATHWAY: Protein biosynthesis; polypeptide chain elongation.
-!- SUBUNIT: The eukaryotic elongation factor 1 complex (eEF1) is
    probably a heterohexamer. Two trimeric complexes, each composed of
    eEF1A (TEF1 or TEF2), eEF1Balpha (EFB1) and eEF1Bgamma (CAM1 or
    TEF4), are probably dimerized via the eF1Bgamma subunits. The
    eEF1B subcomplex with the GEF activity is formed of eEF1Balpha and
    eEF1Bgamma. CAM1 interacts with EFB1. Component of a complex bound
    to MXR1 promoter region.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm. Nucleus.
-!- DOMAIN: Ths GST-like domain mediates the interaction to eEFB1 and
    may be responsible for dimerization of the eEF1 complex.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Present with 60865 molecules/cell.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: There are 2 isoforms for eEF1Bgamma in yeast.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 EF-1-gamma C-terminal domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 GST-like domain.
 GO:0005830; C:cytosolic ribosome (sensu Eukaryota); IGI:SGD.
 GO:0006448; P:regulation of translational elongation; IGI:SGD.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Elongation factor; Nuclear protein; Protein biosynthesis.
TMZERO
