AC   P60507;
HERV-F(c)1_Xq21.33 provirus ancestral Env polyprotein precursor
(Envelope polyprotein) (Fc1env) (HERV-Fc1env) [Contains: Surface
protein (SU); Transmembrane protein (TM)].
"The DNA sequence of the human X chromosome.";
"Identification, phylogeny, and evolution of retroviral elements based
on their envelope genes.";
"Characterization of the low-copy HERV-Fc family: evidence for recent
integrations in primates of elements with coding envelope genes.";
"Genomewide screening for fusogenic human endogenous retrovirus
envelopes identifies syncytin 2, a gene conserved on primate
evolution.";
"Survey of human genes of retroviral origin: identification and
transcriptome of the genes with coding capacity for complete envelope
proteins.";
-!- FUNCTION: Retroviral envelope proteins mediate receptor
    recognition and membrane fusion during early infection. Endogenous
    envelope proteins may have kept, lost or modified their original
    function during evolution. This endogenous envelope protein has
    lost its original fusogenic properties.
-!- FUNCTION: SU mediates receptor recognition (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: TM anchors the envelope heterodimer to the viral
    membrane through one transmembrane domain. The other hydrophobic
    domain, called fusion peptide, mediates fusion of the viral
    membrane with the target cell membrane (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: The surface (SU) and transmembrane (TM) proteins form a
    heterodimer. SU and TM are attached by noncovalent interactions or
    by a labile interchain disulfide bond (By similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Low expression in skin, testis and trachea.
-!- DOMAIN: The CKS-17 immunosuppressive domain is present in many
    retroviral envelope proteins. As a synthetic peptide, it inhibits
    immune function in vitro and in vivo (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo yield the mature SU and
    TM proteins (By similarity).
-!- PTM: The CXXC motif is highly conserved across a broad range of
    retroviral envelope proteins. It is thought to participate to the
    formation of a labile disulfide bond possibly with the CX6CC motif
    present in the transmembrane protein (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Orthologs in Pan troglodytes and Gorilla gorilla
    (truncated).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the gamma type-C retroviral envelope
    protein family. HERV class-I F(c)1 subfamily.
-!- CAUTION: CKS-17 sequence does not match the minimal active
    concensus.
Cleavage on pair of basic residues; Envelope protein; ERV;
Fusion protein; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Signal; Transmembrane;
Transposable element; Virion protein.
TMONE
