AC   P31627;
Envelope glycoprotein precursor (Env polyprotein) [Contains: Surface
protein (Glycoprotein 135) (gp135); Transmembrane protein
(Glycoprotein 38) (gp38)].
"Structure and genetic variability of envelope glycoproteins of two
antigenic variants of caprine arthritis-encephalitis lentivirus.";
-!- FUNCTION: The surface protein (SU) attaches the virus to the host
    cell by binding to its receptor. This interaction triggers the
    refolding of the transmembrane protein (TM) and is thought to
    activate its fusogenic potential by unmasking its fusion peptide.
    Fusion occurs at the host cell plasma membrane (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: The transmembrane protein (TM) acts as a class I viral
    fusion protein. Under the current model, the protein has at least
    3 conformational states: pre-fusion native state, pre-hairpin
    intermediate state, and post-fusion hairpin state. During viral
    and target cell membrane fusion, the coiled coil regions (heptad
    repeats) assume a trimer-of-hairpins structure, positioning the
    fusion peptide in close proximity to the C-terminal region of the
    ectodomain. The formation of this structure appears to drive
    apposition and subsequent fusion of viral and target cell
    membranes. Membranes fusion leads to delivery of the nucleocapsid
    into the cytoplasm (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: The mature envelope protein (Env) consists of a trimer of
    SU-TM heterodimers attached by noncovalent interactions or by a
    labile interchain disulfide bond (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: TM: Virion; virion membrane; single-pass
    type I membrane protein. Cell membrane; single-pass type I
    membrane protein. SU: Virion; virion membrane; peripheral membrane
    protein. Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein. Note=The
    surface protein is not anchored to the viral envelope, but
    associates with the extravirion surface through its binding to TM.
    Both proteins are thought to be concentrated at the site of
    budding and incorporated into the virions possibly by contacts
    between the cytoplasmic tail of Env and the N-terminus of Gag (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo yield mature proteins.
    Envelope glycoproteins are synthesized as a inactive precursor
    that is N-glycosylated and processed likely by host cell furin or
    by a furin-like protease in the Golgi to yield the mature SU and
    TM proteins. The cleavage site between SU and TM requires the
    minimal sequence [KR]-X-[KR]-R (By similarity).
Cleavage on pair of basic residues; Coiled coil;
Direct protein sequencing; Envelope protein; Fusion protein;
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Signal; Transmembrane; Virion protein.
TMONE
