AC   P35961;
Envelope glycoprotein gp160 precursor (Env polyprotein) [Contains:
Surface protein (SU) (Glycoprotein 120) (gp120); Transmembrane protein
(TM) (Glycoprotein 41) (gp41)].
"Complete nucleotide sequence, genome organization, and biological
properties of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 in vivo: evidence
for limited defectiveness and complementation.";
"A conserved HIV gp120 glycoprotein structure involved in chemokine
receptor binding.";
"Pathogens target DC-SIGN to influence their fate DC-SIGN functions as
a pathogen receptor with broad specificity.";
"The HIV Env-mediated fusion reaction.";
"Mechanisms of apoptosis induction by the HIV-1 envelope.";
"V3: HIV's switch-hitter.";
"Emerging drug targets for antiretroviral therapy.";
"HIV and the chemokine system: 10 years later.";
-!- FUNCTION: The surface protein gp120 (SU) attaches the virus to the
    host lymphoid cell by binding to the primary receptor CD4. This
    interaction induces a structural rearrangement creating a high
    affinity binding site for a chemokine coreceptor like CXCR4 and/or
    CCR5. This peculiar 2 stage receptor-interaction strategy allows
    gp120 to maintain the highly conserved coreceptor-binding site in
    a cryptic conformation, protected from neutralizing antibodies.
    Since CD4 also displays a binding site for the disulfide-isomerase
    P4HB/PDI, a P4HB/PDI-CD4-CXCR4-gp120 complex may form. In that
    complex, P4HB/PDI could reach and reduce gp120 disulfide bonds,
    causing major conformational changes in gp120. TXN, another PDI
    family member could also be involved in disulfide rearrangements
    in Env during fusion. These changes are transmitted to the
    transmembrane protein gp41 and are thought to activate its
    fusogenic potential by unmasking its fusion peptide. Fusion occurs
    at the host cell plasma membrane (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: The transmembrane protein gp41 (TM) acts as a class I
    viral fusion protein. Under the current model, the protein has at
    least 3 conformational states: pre-fusion native state, pre-
    hairpin intermediate state, and post-fusion hairpin state. During
    viral and target cell membrane fusion, the coiled coil regions
    (heptad repeats) assume a trimer-of-hairpins structure,
    positioning the fusion peptide in close proximity to the C-
    terminal region of the ectodomain. The formation of this structure
    appears to drive apposition and subsequent fusion of viral and
    target cell membranes. Membranes fusion leads to delivery of the
    nucleocapsid into the cytoplasm.
-!- FUNCTION: The surface protein gp120 is a ligand for CD209/DC-SIGN
    and CLEC4M/DC-SIGNR, which are respectively found on dendritic
    cells (DCs), and on endothelial cells of liver sinusoids and lymph
    node sinuses. These interactions allow capture of viral particles
    at mucosal surfaces by these cells and subsequent transmission to
    permissive cells. DCs are professional antigen presenting cells,
    critical for host immunity by inducing specific immune responses
    against a broad variety of pathogens. They act as sentinels in
    various tissues where they take up antigen, process it, and
    present it to T cells following migration to lymphoid organs. HIV
    subverts the migration properties of dendritic cells to gain
    access to CD4+ T cells in lymph nodes. Virus transmission to
    permissive T-cells occurs either in trans (without DCs infection,
    through viral capture and transmission), or in cis (following DCs
    productive infection, through the usual CD4-gp120 interaction),
    thereby inducing a robust infection. In trans infection, bound
    virions remain infectious over days and it is proposed that they
    are not degraded, but protected in non-lysosomal acidic organelles
    within the DCs close to the cell membrane thus contributing to the
    viral infectious potential during DCs' migration from the
    periphery to the lymphoid tissues. On arrival at lymphoid tissues,
    intact virions recycle back to DCs' cell surface allowing virus
    transmission to CD4+ T cells. Virion capture also seems to lead to
    MHC-II-restricted viral antigen presentation, and probably to the
    activation of HIV-specific CD4+ cells.
-!- FUNCTION: The envelope glyprotein gp160 precursor down-modulates
    cell surface CD4 antigen by interacting with it in the endoplasmic
    reticulum and blocking its transport to the cell surface (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Seems to contribute to T-cell depletion during HIV-1
    infection. The envelope glycoproteins expressed on the surface of
    infected cells induce apoptosis through an interaction with
    uninfected cells expressing the receptor (CD4) and the coreceptors
    CXCR4 or CCR5. This type of bystander killing may be obtained by
    at least three distinct mechanisms. First, the interaction between
    the 2 cells can induce cellular fusion followed by nuclear fusion
    within the syncytium. Syncytia are condemned to die from
    apoptosis. Second, the 2 interacting cells may not fuse entirely
    and simply exchange plasma membrane lipids, after a sort of
    hemifusion process, followed by rapid death. Third, it is possible
    that virus-infected cells, on the point of undergoing apoptosis,
    fuse with CD4-expressing cells, in which case apoptosis is rapidly
    transmitted from one cell to the other and thus occurs in a sort
    of contagious fashion.
-!- FUNCTION: Allows rapid transcytosis of the virus through CD4
    negative cells such as simple epithelial monolayers of the
    intestinal, rectal and endocervical epithelial barriers. Both
    gp120 and gp41 specifically recognize glycosphingolipids
    galactosyl-ceramide (GalCer) or 3' sulfo-galactosyl-ceramide
    (GalS) present in the lipid rafts structures of epithelial cells.
    Binding to these alternative receptors allows the rapid
    transcytosis of the virus through the epithelial cells. This
    transcytotic vesicle-mediated transport of virions from the apical
    side to the basolateral side of the epithelial cells does not
    involve infection of the cells themselves.
-!- SUBUNIT: The mature envelope protein (Env) consists of a
    homotrimer of noncovalently associated gp120-gp41 heterodimers.
    The resulting complex protrudes from the virus surface as a spike.
    There seems to be as few as 10 spikes on the average virion.
    Surface protein gp120 interacts with human CD4, CCR5 and CXCR4, to
    form a P4HB/PDI-CD4-CXCR4-gp120 complex. Gp120 also interacts with
    the C-type lectins CD209/DC-SIGN and CLEC4M/DC-SIGNR (collectively
    referred to as DC-SIGN(R)). Gp120 and gp41 interact with GalCer
    (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: TM: Virion; virion membrane; single-pass
    type I membrane protein. Cell membrane; single-pass type I
    membrane protein. SU: Virion; virion membrane; peripheral membrane
    protein. Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein. Note=The
    surface protein is not anchored to the viral envelope, but
    associates with the extravirion surface through its binding to TM.
    Both proteins are thought to be concentrated at the site of
    budding and incorporated into the virions possibly by contacts
    between the cytoplasmic tail of Env and the N-terminus of Gag.
-!- DOMAIN: The YXXL motif is involved in determining the exact site
    of viral release at the surface of infected mononuclear cells and
    promotes endocytosis (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The 17 amino acids long immunosuppressive region is
    present in many retroviral envelope proteins. Synthetic peptides
    derived from this relatively conserved sequence inhibit immune
    function in vitro and in vivo (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: Some of the most genetically diverse regions of the viral
    genome are present in Env. They are called variable regions 1
    through 5 (V1 through V5). Coreceptor usage of gp120 is determined
    mainly by the primary structure of the third variable region (V3)
    in the outer domain of gp120. The sequence of V3 determines which
    coreceptor, CCR5 and/or CXCR4 (corresponding to R5/macrophage,
    X4/T cell and R5X4/T cell and macrophage tropism), is used to
    trigger the fusion potential of the Env complex, and hence which
    cells the virus can infect. Binding to CCR5 involves a region
    adjacent in addition to V3.
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo yield mature proteins.
    Envelope glycoproteins are synthesized as a inactive precursor
    that is heavily N-glycosylated and processed likely by host cell
    furin in the Golgi to yield the mature SU and TM proteins. The
    cleavage site between SU and TM requires the minimal sequence
    [KR]-X-[KR]-R. About 2 of the 9 disulfide bonds of gp41 are
    reduced by P4HB/PDI, following binding to CD4 receptor (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: Palmitoylation of the transmembrane protein and of Env
    polyprotein (prior to its proteolytic cleavage) is essential for
    their association with host cell membrane lipid rafts.
    Palmitoylation is therefore required for envelope trafficking to
    classical lipid rafts, but not for viral replication (By
    similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Inhibitors targeting HIV-1 viral envelope proteins
    are used as antiretroviral drugs. Attachment of virions to the
    cell surface via nonspecific interactions and CD4 binding can be
    blocked by inhibitors that include cyanovirin-N,
    cyclotriazadisulfonamide analogs, PRO 2000, TNX 355 and PRO 542.
    In addition, BMS 806 can block CD4-induced conformational changes.
    Env interactions with the coreceptor molecules can be targeted by
    CCR5 antagonists including SCH-D, maraviroc (UK 427857) and
    aplaviroc (GW 873140), and the CXCR4 antagonist AMD 070. Fusion of
    viral and cellular membranes can be inhibited by peptides such as
    enfuvirtide and tifuvirtide (T 1249). Resistance to inhibitors
    associated with mutations in Env are observed. Most of the time,
    single mutations confer only a modest reduction in drug
    susceptibility. Combination of several mutations is usually
    required to develop a high-level drug resistance.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: HIV-1 lineages are divided in three main groups, M
    (for Major), O (for Outlier), and N (for New, or Non-M, Non-O).
    The vast majority of strains found worldwide belong to the group
    M. Group O seems to be endemic to and largely confined to Cameroon
    and neighboring countries in West Central Africa, where these
    viruses represent a small minority of HIV-1 strains. The group N
    is represented by a limited number of isolates from Cameroonian
    persons. The group M is further subdivided in 9 clades or subtypes
    (A to D, F to H, J and K).
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=resdb; NOTE=HIV resistance database;
    URL="http://resdb.lanl.gov/Resist_DB/".
3D-structure; AIDS; Apoptosis; Cleavage on pair of basic residues;
Coiled coil; Envelope protein; Fusion protein; Glycoprotein;
Host-virus interaction; Lipoprotein; Membrane; Palmitate; Signal;
Transmembrane; Viral immunoevasion; Virion protein.
TMONE
