AC   Q8R2E9;
ERO1-like protein beta precursor (EC 1.8.4.-) (ERO1-Lbeta)
(Oxidoreductin-1-Lbeta) (Endoplasmic oxidoreductin-1-like protein B).
"Cloning of the two forms of Ero1, alpha and beta and their regulation
in cultured thyrocytes.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
-!- FUNCTION: Essential oxidoreductase that oxidizes proteins in the
    endoplasmic reticulum to produce disulfide bonds. Acts by
    oxidizing directly P4HB/PDI isomerase through a direct disulfide
    exchange. Does not act as a direct oxidant of folding substrate,
    but relies on P4HB/PDI to transfer oxidizing equivalent.
    Associates with TXNDC4 but not with GRP54, demonstrating that it
    does not oxidize all PDI related proteins and can discriminate
    between PDI and related proteins. Its reoxidation probably
    involves electron transfer to molecular oxygen via FAD. Acts
    independently of glutathione. May be responsible for a significant
    proportion of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the being a source
    of oxidative stress. Required for the folding of cell, thereby
    being a source of oxidative stress (By similarity).
-!- COFACTOR: FAD (By similarity).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Glutathione may be required to regulate its
    activity in the endoplasmic reticulum (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: May function both as a monomer and a homodimer (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum
    membrane; peripheral membrane protein; lumenal side (By
    similarity). Note=The association with TXNDC4 may be essential for
    its retention in the endoplasmic reticulum (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated (By similarity).
-!- PTM: The Cys-90/Cys-95 and Cys-393/Cys-396 disulfide bonds
    constitute the redox-active center. The Cys-90/Cys-95 disulfide
    bond may accept electron from P4HB and funnel them to the active
    site disulfide Cys-393/Cys-396 (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the EROs family.
Electron transport; Endoplasmic reticulum; FAD; Flavoprotein;
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Oxidoreductase; Redox-active center; Signal;
Transport.
TMZERO
