AC   P54360; Q24176; Q8SZ37; Q9V8E3;
Protein four-jointed.
"four-jointed is required for intermediate growth in the proximal-
distal axis in Drosophila.";
"Positional information along the dorsal-ventral axis of the
Drosophila eye: graded expression of the four-jointed gene.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"A Drosophila full-length cDNA resource.";
"The four-jointed gene is required in the Drosophila eye for
ommatidial polarity specification.";
"Four-jointed interacts with dachs, abelson and enabled and feeds back
onto the Notch pathway to affect growth and segmentation in the
Drosophila leg.";
"Cleavage and secretion is not required for four-jointed function in
Drosophila patterning.";
-!- FUNCTION: Required for intermediate growth in the proximal-distal
    axis. Acts in ommatidial polarity determination as a secondary
    signal downstream of Notch, JAK/STAT and wingless. Also necessary
    for the initiation, up-regulation or maintenance of Notch ligand,
    Serrate (Ser) expression in legs, thereby participating in a
    feedback loop with N signaling. Sufficient for joint formation and
    growth in the leg.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Golgi apparatus; Golgi apparatus membrane;
    single-pass type II membrane protein. Processed form: Secreted
    protein. Note=Golgi apparatus, in the wing pouch. Also
    proteolytically cleaved to yield a secreted protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: In the eye disk, expressed in a gradient ahead
    of the morphogenetic furrow, high at the equator and low at the
    poles of the eye. In the leg disk, expressed in concentric rings,
    possibly corresponding to segmental boundaries. In the wing disk,
    expression is localized in the wing pouch; low in peripheral
    regions and high towards the center.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mutants show reduced growth and altered
    differentiation only within restricted sectors of the proximal-
    distal (PD) axis in the leg and wing.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; IDA:FlyBase.
 GO:0007267; P:cell-cell signaling; IDA:FlyBase.
 GO:0045198; P:establishment of epithelial cell polarity; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0042067; P:establishment of ommatidial polarity (sensu...; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0007446; P:imaginal disc growth; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0016348; P:leg joint morphogenesis (sensu Endopterygota); IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0007474; P:wing vein specification; IMP:FlyBase.
Complete proteome; Glycoprotein; Golgi apparatus; Membrane;
Notch signaling pathway; Signal-anchor; Transmembrane;
Wnt signaling pathway.
TMONE
