AC   Q9JHE4; Q9D8V6;
Galactosylceramide sulfotransferase (EC 2.8.2.11) (GalCer
sulfotransferase) (Cerebroside sulfotransferase) (3'-
phosphoadenylylsulfate:galactosylceramide 3'-sulfotransferase) (3'-
phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate:GalCer sulfotransferase).
"cDNA cloning, genomic cloning, and tissue-specific regulation of
mouse cerebroside sulfotransferase.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Paranodal junction formation and spermatogenesis require
sulfoglycolipids.";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the sulfation of membrane glycolipids. Seems
    to prefer beta-glycosides at the nonreducing termini of sugar
    chains attached to a lipid moiety. Catalyzes the synthesis of
    HSO3-3-galactosylceramide (sulfatide), a major lipid component of
    the myelin sheath and of HSO3-3-monogalactosylalkylacylglycerol
    (seminolipid), present in spermatocytes. Also acts on
    lactosylceramide, galactosyl 1-alkyl-2-sn-glycerol and galactosyl
    diacylglycerol (in vitro).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: 3'-phosphoadenylyl sulfate + a
    galactosylceramide = adenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate +
    galactosylceramide sulfate.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: 3'-phosphoadenylyl sulfate +
    monogalactosylalkylacylglycerol = adenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate +
    monogalactosylalkylacylglycerol sulfate.
-!- PATHWAY: Lipid metabolism; sphingolipid metabolism.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Golgi apparatus; Golgi apparatus membrane;
    single-pass type II membrane protein (By similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in brain, testis, kidney, stomach,
    small intestine, liver, and lung. Not detected in heart, skeletal
    muscle, and spleen.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mice homozygous for a null mutation of the CST gene
    display hindlimb weakness from week 6 of age and subsequently show
    a prenounced tremor and progressive ataxia. Myelin vacuolation is
    observed in the cerebellar white matter, diencephalon, brainstem
    and spinal anterior column. Male mice were infertile due to a
    blocked spermatogenesis.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the galactose-3-O-sulfotransferase family.
 GO:0000139; C:Golgi membrane; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0001733; F:galactosylceramide sulfotransferase activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0006682; P:galactosylceramide biosynthesis; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0009247; P:glycolipid biosynthesis; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0042552; P:myelination; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0007283; P:spermatogenesis; IMP:MGI.
Glycoprotein; Golgi apparatus; Membrane; Signal-anchor; Transferase;
Transmembrane.
TMONE
