AC   Q9WV18; Q9WU48; Q9WV15; Q9WV16; Q9WV17;
Gamma-aminobutyric acid type B receptor, subunit 1 precursor (GABA-B
receptor 1) (GABA-B-R1) (Gb1).
"Coexpression of full-length gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B))
receptors with truncated receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptor
4 supports the GABA(B) heterodimer as the functional receptor.";
"Cloning of the murine GABABR1b receptor.";
"Mouse GABA-B receptor cDNA sequence.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Role of heteromer formation in GABAB receptor function.";
"Comprehensive identification of phosphorylation sites in postsynaptic
density preparations.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor for GABA. The activity of this receptor is
    mediated by G-proteins that inhibit adenylyl cyclase activity,
    stimulates phospholipase A2, activates potassium channels,
    inactivates voltage-dependent calcium-channels and modulates
    inositol phospholipids hydrolysis. Plays a critical role in the
    fine-tuning of inhibitory synaptic transmission. Pre-synaptic
    GABA-B-R inhibit neurotransmitter release by down-regulating high-
    voltage activated calcium channels, whereas postsynaptic GABA-B-R
    decrease neuronal excitability by activating a prominent inwardly
    rectifying potassium (Kir) conductance that underlies the late
    inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Not only implicated in
    synaptic inhibition but also in hippocampal long-term
    potentiation, slow wave sleep, muscle relaxation and
    antinociception.
-!- COFACTOR: Calcium. Required for high affinity binding to GABA (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterodimer of GABA-B-R1 and GABA-B-R2. Neither of which
    is effective on its own and homodimeric assembly does not seem to
    happen. Interacts with the leucine zipper of the C-terminal bZIP
    domain of ATF4 via its C-terminal region (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (By similarity). Note=Moreover coexpression of GABA-B-R1 and GABA-
    B-R2 appears to be a prerequisite for maturation and transport of
    GABA-B-R1 to the plasma membrane (By similarity). Colocalizes with
    ATF4 in hippocampal neuron dendritic membranes (By similarity).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=4;
    Name=1A;
      IsoId=Q9WV18-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=1B;
      IsoId=Q9WV18-2; Sequence=VSP_002041;
    Name=1C;
      IsoId=Q9WV18-3; Sequence=VSP_002041, VSP_002042;
    Name=1D;
      IsoId=Q9WV18-4; Sequence=VSP_002041, VSP_002043;
-!- DOMAIN: Alpha-helical parts of the C-terminal intracellular region
    mediate heterodimeric interaction with GABA-B receptor 2. The
    linker region between the transmembrane domain 3 (TM3) and the
    transmembrane domain 4 (TM4) probably play a role in the
    specificity for G-protein coupling.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 3 family.
    GABA-B receptor subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 Sushi (CCP/SCR) domains.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:MGI.
Alternative splicing; Coiled coil; G-protein coupled receptor;
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Postsynaptic membrane;
Receptor; Repeat; Signal; Sushi; Transducer; Transmembrane.
TMSEVEN
