AC   O56860;
Gag polyprotein [Contains: Gag protein (p48Gag); p3 (p3Gag)].
"Characterization of the genome of Feline foamy virus and its proteins
shows distinct features different from those of Primate
Spumaviruses.";
"Specific interaction of a novel foamy virus Env leader protein with
the N-terminal Gag domain.";
"Features of the Env leader protein and the N-terminal Gag domain of
feline foamy virus important for virus morphogenesis.";
"N-terminal Gag domain required for foamy virus particle assembly and
export.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in capsid formation and genome binding. Shortly
    after infection, centrosomal targeting of incoming particle-
    associated Gag proteins allows the viral genome (associated to
    Gag) to reach the nucleus and integrate the genome (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Gag protein specifically interacts with the N-terminus of
    leader peptide. This specific interaction between Gag protein and
    Env glycoprotein may compensate for the lack of a Gag membrane
    targeting signal, and allow particle egress. The capsid is
    composed of multimeric Gag protein (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Gag protein: Virion. Cytoplasm; perinuclear
    region. p3: Virion. Cytoplasm; perinuclear region. Note=Gag
    proteins assemble in the cytoplasm to form the capsids (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo by viral protease yield
    mature proteins. The protease is not cleaved off from Pol. Since
    cleavage efficiency is not optimal for all sites, intermediary
    molecules are expressed (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Foamy viruses are distinct from other retroviruses
    in many respects. Their protease is active as an uncleaved Pro-Pol
    protein. Mature particles do not include the usual processed
    retroviral structural protein (MA, CA and NC), but instead contain
    two large Gag proteins. Their functional nucleic acid appears to
    be either RNA or dsDNA (up to 20% of extracellular particles),
    because they probably proceed either to an early (before
    integration) or late reverse transcription (after assembly). Foamy
    viruses have the ability to retrotranspose intracellularly with
    high efficiency. They bud predominantly into the endoplasmic
    reticulum (ER) and occasionnally at the plasma membrane. Budding
    requires the presence of Env proteins. Most viral particles
    probably remain within the infected cell.
Capsid protein; DNA-binding; RNA-binding; Viral nucleoprotein;
Virion protein.
TMZERO
