AC   Q9QBZ2;
Gag polyprotein (Pr55Gag) [Contains: Matrix protein p17 (MA); Capsid
protein p24 (CA); Spacer peptide p2; Nucleocapsid protein p7 (NC);
Spacer peptide p1; p6-gag].
"Near-full-length genome sequencing of divergent African HIV type 1
subtype F viruses leads to the identification of a new HIV type 1
subtype designated K.";
-!- FUNCTION: Matrix protein p17 targets Gag and Gag-Pol polyproteins
    to the plasma membrane via a multipartite membrane binding signal,
    that includes its myristoylated N-terminus. Also mediates nuclear
    localization of the preintegration complex. Implicated in the
    release from host cell mediated by Vpu (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Capsid protein p24 forms the conical core of the virus
    that encapsulates the genomic RNA-nucleocapsid complex (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Nucleocapsid protein p7 encapsulates and protects viral
    dimeric unspliced (genomic) RNA. Binds these RNAs through its zinc
    fingers (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: p6-gag plays a role in budding of the assembled particle
    by interacting with the host class E VPS proteins TSG101 and
    PDCD6IP/AIP1 (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Matrix protein p17 is a trimer. Interacts with gp120. p6-
    gag interacts with human TSG101 and PDCD6IP/AIP1 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus. Cytoplasm. Note=Following virus
    entry, the nuclear localization signal (NLS) of the matrix protein
    mediates nuclear localization of the preintegration complex.
    During virus production, the nuclear export activity of the matrix
    protein counteracts the NLS to maintain the Gag and Gag-Pol
    polyproteins in the cytoplasm, thereby directing unspliced RNA to
    the plasma membrane (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: Late-budding domains (L domains) are short sequence motifs
    essential for viral particle release. They can occur individually
    or in close proximity within structural proteins. They interacts
    with sorting cellular proteins of the multivesicular body (MVB)
    pathway. Most of these proteins are class E vacuolar protein
    sorting factors belonging to ESCRT-I, ESCRT-II or ESCRT-III
    complexes. p6-gag contains two L domains: a PTAP/PSAP motif, which
    interacts with the UEV domain of TSG101 and a LXXLF motif which
    interacts with PDCD6IP/AIP1 (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Capsid protein p24 is phosphorylated (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages by the viral protease yield
    mature proteins. The polyprotein is cleaved during and after
    budding, this process is termed maturation (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Gag proteins are synthesized on both gag and gag-
    pol polyproteins. Gag polyprotein is produced from conventional
    translation of the gag ORF. Gag-Pol polyprotein (AC Q9QBZ1) is
    generated by a -1 ribosomal frameshift occurring at the gag-pol
    genes boundary. This strategy of translation probably allows the
    virus to modulate the quantity of each viral protein. Maintenance
    of the Gag to Gag-Pol ratio 20:1 is essential for RNA dimerization
    and viral infectivity.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: HIV-1 lineages are divided in three main groups, M
    (for Major), O (for Outlier), and N (for New, or Non-M, Non-O).
    The vast majority of strains found worldwide belong to the group
    M. Group O seems to be endemic to and largely confined to Cameroon
    and neighboring countries in West Central Africa, where these
    viruses represent a small minority of HIV-1 strains. The group N
    is represented by a limited number of isolates from Cameroonian
    persons. The group M is further subdivided in 9 clades or subtypes
    (A to D, F to H, J and K).
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 CCHC-type zinc fingers.
AIDS; Capsid protein; Host-virus interaction; Lipoprotein; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Myristate; Phosphorylation; Repeat; RNA-binding;
Viral nucleoprotein; Virion protein; Zinc; Zinc-finger.
TMZERO
