AC   P70419; Q80V55;
Polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3 (EC 2.4.1.41)
(Protein-UDP acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3) (UDP-
GalNAc:polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3) (Polypeptide
GalNAc transferase 3) (GalNAc-T3) (pp-GaNTase 3).
"Cloning and expression of mouse UDP-GalNAc:polypeptide N-
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase-T3.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the initial reaction in O-linked
    oligosaccharide biosynthesis, the transfer of an N-acetyl-D-
    galactosamine residue to a serine or threonine residue on the
    protein receptor. Has activity toward HIV envelope glycoprotein
    gp120, EA2, Muc2 and Muc5. Probably glycosylates fibronectin in
    vivo. May be involved in phosphate homeostasis.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: UDP-N-acetyl-D-galactosamine + polypeptide =
    UDP + N-acetyl-D-galactosaminyl-polypeptide.
-!- COFACTOR: Manganese (By similarity).
-!- COFACTOR: Calcium (By similarity).
-!- PATHWAY: Glycosylation.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Golgi apparatus; Golgi stack; Golgi stack
    membrane; single-pass type II membrane protein (By similarity).
    Note=Resides preferentially in the trans and medial parts of the
    Golgi stack (By similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in the reproductive tract,
    principally in the testis and uterus, and to a lesser degree in
    the cervix with only trace levels in the ovary. Also expressed at
    high level in sublingual gland, stomach and colon, with more
    moderate amounts present in the submandibular and parotid gland as
    well as the kidney.
-!- DOMAIN: There are two conserved domains in the glycosyltransferase
    region: the N-terminal domain (domain A, also called GT1 motif),
    which is probably involved in manganese coordination and substrate
    binding and the C-terminal domain (domain B, also called
    Gal/GalNAc-T motif), which is probably involved in catalytic
    reaction and UDP-Gal binding (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The ricin B-type lectin domain binds to GalNAc and
    contributes to the glycopeptide specificity (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyltransferase 2 family. GalNAc-T
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ricin B-type lectin domain.
Calcium; Glycoprotein; Glycosyltransferase; Golgi apparatus; Lectin;
Manganese; Membrane; Signal-anchor; Transferase; Transmembrane.
TMONE
