AC   P35547;
Glucocorticoid receptor (GR) (Fragment).
"Characterization of an ovine glucocorticoid receptor cDNA and
developmental changes in its mRNA levels in the fetal sheep
hypothalamus, pituitary gland and adrenal.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor for glucocorticoids (GC). Has a dual mode of
    action: as a transcription factor that binds to glucocorticoid
    response elements (GRE) and as a modulator of other transcription
    factors. Affects inflammatory responses, cellular proliferation
    and differentiation in target tissues (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Heteromultimeric cytoplasmic complex with HSP90, HSP70,
    and an immunophilin. Upon ligand binding the complex undergoes a
    conformation change and moves to the nucleus, where it
    dissociates. Binds to DNA as a homodimer, and as heterodimer with
    NR3C2 or the retinoid X receptor. Interacts with the coactivator
    NCOA6, leading to a strong increase in transcription of target
    genes. Interaction with numerous other transcription factors
    modulates transcription activation. Interacts with TRIM28.
    Interacts with PELP1 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (By similarity). Nucleus (By
    similarity). Note=Cytoplasmic in the absence of ligand, nuclear
    after ligand-binding (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: Composed of three domains: a modulating N-terminal domain,
    a DNA-binding domain and a C-terminal steroid-binding domain.
-!- PTM: Increased proteasome-mediated degradation in response to
    glucocorticoids (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated in the absence of hormone; becomes
    hyperphosphorylated in the presence of glucocorticoids (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: Sumoylated; this reduces transcription transactivation (By
    similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor family. NR3
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 nuclear receptor DNA-binding domain.
DNA-binding; Lipid-binding; Metal-binding; Nuclear protein; Receptor;
Steroid-binding; Transcription; Transcription regulation;
Ubl conjugation; Zinc; Zinc-finger.
TMZERO
