AC   O15354; O00348; O14768; Q8TD39;
Probable G-protein coupled receptor 37 precursor (Endothelin B
receptor-like protein 1) (ETBR-LP-1) (Parkin-associated endothelin
receptor-like receptor) (PAELR).
"Cloning of GPR37, a gene located on chromosome 7 encoding a putative
G-protein-coupled peptide receptor, from a human frontal brain EST
library.";
"A human gene encodes a putative G protein-coupled receptor highly
expressed in the central nervous system.";
"A novel endothelin receptor type-B-like gene enriched in the brain.";
"An unfolded putative transmembrane polypeptide, which can lead to
endoplasmic reticulum stress, is a substrate of Parkin.";
"The DNA sequence of human chromosome 7.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"CHIP is associated with Parkin, a gene responsible for familial
Parkinson's disease, and enhances its ubiquitin ligase activity.";
"A product of the human gene adjacent to parkin is a component of Lewy
bodies and suppresses Pael receptor-induced cell death.";
-!- FUNCTION: Orphan receptor. May have a unique functional role in
    the central nervous system.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms a complex with PARK2, STUB1 and HSP70. The amount
    of STUB1 in the complex increases during ER stress. STUB1 promotes
    the dissociation of HSP70 from PARK2, thus facilitating PARK2-
    mediated GPR37 ubiquitination. Interacts with PACRG.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in brain and spinal cord, and at
    lower levels in testis, placenta and liver, but no detectable
    expression observed in any other tissue. When overexpressed, cells
    tends to become insoluble and unfolded. Accumulation of the
    unfolded protein may lead to dopaminergic neuronal death in
    juvenile Parkinson disease (PDJ).
-!- PTM: Ubiquitinated by PARK2 in the presence of UBE2E1 and UBE2L3
    in the endoplasmic reticulum.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0004930; F:G-protein coupled receptor activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007186; P:G-protein coupled receptor protein signalin...; TAS:ProtInc.
G-protein coupled receptor; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Receptor; Signal;
Transducer; Transmembrane; Ubl conjugation.
TMSEVEN
