AC   Q9BQQ3; Q8N272; Q96H42;
Golgi reassembly-stacking protein 1 (Golgi reassembly-stacking protein
of 65 kDa) (GRASP65) (Golgi peripheral membrane protein p65) (Golgi
phosphoprotein 5) (GOLPH5).
"Refined physical mapping and genomic structure of a 4-Mb region (AP-
20) on human chromosome 3p22-p21.33 implicated in lung and kidney
cancerogenesis.";
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Maintenance of Golgi structure and function depends on the integrity
of ER export.";
"A direct role for GRASP65 as a mitotically regulated Golgi stacking
factor.";
"Peripheral Golgi protein GRASP65 is a target of mitotic polo-like
kinase (Plk) and Cdc2.";
-!- FUNCTION: Stacking factor involved in the postmitotic assembly of
    Golgi stacks from mitotic Golgi fragments. Key structural protein
    required for the maintenance of the Golgi apparatus integrity: its
    caspase-mediated cleavage is required for fragmentation of the
    Golgi during apoptosis. Also mediates, via its interaction with
    GM130, the docking of transport vesicles with the Golgi membranes.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer. Forms higher order oligomers under interphase
    but not mitotic conditions. Dimers of the protein on one membrane
    might be able to interact with dimers on another and so stack
    cisternae. Interacts with the C-terminus of GM130 under both
    mitotic and non-mitotic conditions. The interaction is critical
    for the correct targeting of both proteins to the cis-Golgi. The
    complex binds to the vesicle docking protein p115 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Golgi apparatus; cis-Golgi network; cis-
    Golgi network membrane; peripheral membrane protein; cytoplasmic
    side. Note=Undergoes rapid exchange with the cytosol.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q9BQQ3-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q9BQQ3-2; Sequence=VSP_011307;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
    Name=3;
      IsoId=Q9BQQ3-3; Sequence=VSP_011306, VSP_011308, VSP_011309;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by CDC2/B1 and PLK kinases during mitosis.
    Phosphorylation cycle correlates with the cisternal stacking
    cycle. Phosphorylation of the homodimer prevents the association
    of dimers into higher order oligomers, leading to cisternal
    unstacking.
-!- PTM: Target for caspase-3 cleavage during apoptosis. The cleavage
    contributes to Golgi fragmentation and occurs very early in the
    execution phase of apoptosis (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the GORASP family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PDZ (DHR) domain.
Alternative splicing; Golgi apparatus; Lipoprotein; Membrane;
Myristate; Phosphorylation; Protein transport; Transport.
TMZERO
