AC   Q9AWA5; O82061;
Alpha-glucan water dikinase, chloroplast precursor (EC 2.7.9.4)
(EC 2.7.13.3) (Starch-related R1 protein).
"Inhibition of a starch-granule-bound protein leads to modified starch
and repression of cold sweetening.";
"Production of highly phosphorylated glycopolymers by expression of R1
in Escherichia coli.";
"Reversible binding of the starch-related R1 protein to the surface of
transitory starch granules.";
"The starch-related R1 protein is an alpha-glucan, water dikinase.";
"Functional characterization of alpha-glucan, water dikinase, the
starch phosphorylating enzyme.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates the incorporation of phosphate into starch-like
    alpha-glucan. Acts as an overall regulator of starch mobilization.
    Required for starch degradation, suggesting that the phosphate
    content of starch regulates its degradability. More active on
    alpha-1,6 branched amylopectin.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + alpha-glucan + H(2)O = AMP + phospho-
    alpha-glucan + phosphate.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + protein L-histidine = ADP + protein N-
    phospho-L-histidine.
-!- COFACTOR: Magnesium.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=0.23 uM for ATP;
      KM=1.7 uM for amylopectin;
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 7;
    Temperature dependence:
      Optimum temperature is 35 degrees Celsius;
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Plastid; chloroplast. Note=Starch granules.
    Binds to starch granules isolated from either illuminated or
    darkened leaves. However, binding to darkened leaves is more
    effective, suggesting that depending upon the metabolic state of
    the cells, the starch granule surface changes and thereby affects
    its binding.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in leaves.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the PEP-utilizing enzyme family.
 GO:0050521; F:alpha-glucan, water dikinase activity; IEA:EC.
ATP-binding; Carbohydrate metabolism; Chloroplast;
Direct protein sequencing; Kinase; Nucleotide-binding;
Phosphorylation; Plastid; Transferase; Transit peptide.
TMZERO
