AC   Q8BFU2;
Histone H2A type 3.
"The human and mouse replication-dependent histone genes.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Polycomb group proteins Ring1A/B link ubiquitylation of histone H2A
to heritable gene silencing and X inactivation.";
"Ring1b-mediated H2A ubiquitination associates with inactive X
chromosomes and is involved in initiation of X inactivation.";
"Blimp1 associates with Prmt5 and directs histone arginine methylation
in mouse germ cells.";
-!- FUNCTION: Core component of nucleosome. Nucleosomes wrap and
    compact DNA into chromatin, limiting DNA accessibility to the
    cellular machineries which require DNA as a template. Histones
    thereby play a central role in transcription regulation, DNA
    repair, DNA replication and chromosomal stability. DNA
    accessibility is regulated via a complex set of post-translational
    modifications of histones, also called histone code, and
    nucleosome remodelling.
-!- SUBUNIT: The nucleosome is a histone octamer containing two
    molecules each of H2A, H2B, H3 and H4 assembled in one H3-H4
    heterotetramer and two H2A-H2B heterodimers. The octamer wraps
    approximately 147 bp of DNA.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Nucleus (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Monoubiquitination of Lys-119 by RING1 and RNF2/RING2 complex
    gives a specific tag for epigenetic transcriptional repression and
    participates in X chromosome inactivation of female mammals. It is
    involved in the initiation of both imprinted and random X
    inactivation. Ubiquitinated H2A is enriched in inactive X
    chromosome chromatin. Ubiquitination of H2A functions downstream
    of methylation of 'Lys-27' of histone H3. Monoubiquitination of
    Lys-119 by RNF2/RING2 can also be induced by ultraviolet and may
    be involved in DNA repair.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation on Ser-1 is enhanced during mitosis.
    Phosphorylation on Ser-1 by RPS6KA5/MSK1 directly represses
    transcription. Acetylation of H3 inhibits Ser-1 phosphorylation by
    RPS6KA5/MSK1 (By similarity).
-!- PTM: The chromatin-associated form is phosphorylated on Thr-120
    during mitosis (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Symmetric dimethylation on Arg-3 by the PRDM1/PRMT5 complex
    may play a crucial role in the germ-cell lineage.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the histone H2A family.
Acetylation; Chromosomal protein; Citrullination; DNA-binding;
Methylation; Nuclear protein; Nucleosome core; Phosphorylation;
Ubl conjugation.
TMZERO
