AC   Q9SWE5; Q6ID92;
Phosphopantothenoylcysteine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.36) (Halotolerance
protein Hal3a) (AtHal3a) (PPCDC) (AtCoaC).
"Arabidopsis thaliana AtHAL3: a flavoprotein related to salt and
osmotic tolerance and plant growth.";
"Structural analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana chromosome 3. II.
Sequence features of the 4,251,695 bp regions covered by 90 P1, TAC
and BAC clones.";
"Arabidopsis ORF clones.";
"Large-scale analysis of RIKEN Arabidopsis full-length (RAFL) cDNAs.";
"Arabidopsis thaliana flavoprotein AtHAL3a catalyzes the
decarboxylation of 4'-Phosphopantothenoylcysteine to 4'-
phosphopantetheine, a key step in coenzyme A biosynthesis.";
"Molecular characterization of the Arabidopsis thaliana flavoprotein
AtHAL3a reveals the general reaction mechanism of 4'-
phosphopantothenoylcysteine decarboxylases.";
"The X-ray structure of the FMN-binding protein AtHal3 provides the
structural basis for the activity of a regulatory subunit involved in
signal transduction.";
"Crystal structure of the plant PPC decarboxylase AtHAL3a complexed
with an ene-thiol reaction intermediate.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in plant growth and salt and osmotic tolerance.
    Catalyzes the decarboxylation of 4'-phosphopantothenoylcysteine to
    4'-phosphopantetheine, a key step in coenzyme A biosynthesis. The
    enzyme is also able to decarboxylate pantothenoylcysteine to
    pantothenoylcysteamine.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: N-((R)-4'-phosphopantothenoyl)-L-cysteine =
    pantotheine 4'-phosphate + CO(2).
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 FMN per subunit.
-!- PATHWAY: Cofactor biosynthesis; coenzyme A biosynthesis; coenzyme
    A from pantothenate: step 3.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotrimer.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in roots, shoots, leaves, flowers,
    developing siliques and seeds with highest expression in seed
    embryos and phloem.
-!- INDUCTION: By salt stress.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the HFCD (homo-oligomeric flavin containing
    Cys decarboxylase) superfamily.
 GO:0004633; F:phosphopantothenoylcysteine decarboxylase a...; IEA:EC.
3D-structure; Decarboxylase; Flavoprotein; FMN; Lyase.
TMZERO
