AC   P31613;
Hemagglutinin-esterase precursor (EC 3.1.1.53) (HE) (E3 glycoprotein).
"The hemagglutinin/esterase glycoprotein of bovine coronaviruses:
sequence and functional comparisons between virulent and avirulent
strains.";
"Nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequences of all genes encoded by
the 3' genomic portion (9.5 kb) of respiratory bovine coronaviruses
and comparisons among respiratory and enteric coronaviruses.";
-!- FUNCTION: Structural protein that makes short spikes at the
    surface of the virus. Contains receptor binding and receptor-
    destroying activities. Mediates de-O-acetylation of N-acetyl-9-O-
    acetylneuraminic acid, which is probably the receptor determinant
    recognized by the virus on the surface of erythrocytes and
    susceptible cells. This receptor-destroying activity is important
    for virus release as it probably helps preventing self-aggregation
    and ensures the efficient spread of the progeny virus from cell to
    cell. May serve as a secondary viral attachment protein for
    initiating infection, the spike protein being the major one. Seems
    to be a 'luxury' protein that is not absolutely necessary for
    virus infection in culture. However, its presence in the virus may
    alter its pathogenicity. May become a target for both the humoral
    and the cellular branches of the immune system (By similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: N-acetyl-O-acetylneuraminate + H(2)O = N-
    acetylneuraminate + acetate.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer; disulfide-linked. Forms a complex with the M
    protein in the pre-Golgi. Associates then with S-M complex to form
    a ternary complex S-M-HE.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Virion; virion membrane. Cell membrane;
    single-pass membrane protein. Note=In infected cells becomes
    incorporated into the envelope of virions during virus assembly at
    the endoplasmic reticulum and cis Golgi. However, some may escape
    incorporation into virions and subsequently migrate to the cell
    surface.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated in the RER.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the influenza type C/coronaviruses
    hemagglutinin-esterase family.
 GO:0001681; F:sialate O-acetylesterase activity; IEA:EC.
Envelope protein; Glycoprotein; Hemagglutinin; Hydrolase; Membrane;
Signal; Transmembrane; Virion protein.
TMONE
