AC   P03444;
Hemagglutinin precursor [Contains: Hemagglutinin HA1 chain]
(Fragment).
"Sequence relationships among the hemagglutinin genes of 12 subtypes
of influenza A virus.";
-!- FUNCTION: Binds to sialic acid-containing receptors on the cell
    surface, bringing about the attachment of the virus particle to
    the cell. Plays a major role in the determination of host range
    restriction and virulence. Class I viral fusion protein.
    Responsible for penetration of the virus into the cell cytoplasm
    by mediating the fusion of the membrane of the endocytosed virus
    particle with the endosomal membrane. Low pH in endosomes induce
    an irreversible conformational change in HA2, releasing the fusion
    hydrophobic peptide. Several trimers are required to form a
    competent fusion pore.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotrimer of disulfide-linked HA1-HA2.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; single-
    pass type I membrane protein. Note=Targeted to the apical plasma
    membrane in epithelial polarized cells through a signal present in
    the transmembrane domain. Associated with glycosphingolipid- and
    cholesterol-enriched detergent-resistant lipid rafts.
-!- PTM: In natural infection, inactive HA is matured into HA1 and HA2
    outside the cell by one or more trypsin-like, arginine-specific
    endoprotease secreted by the bronchial epithelial cells. One
    identified protease that may be involved in this process is
    tryptase Clara.
-!- PTM: Palmitoylated (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Major glycoprotein, comprises over 80% of the
    envelope proteins present in virus particle.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The extent of infection into host organism is
    determined by HA. Influenza viruses bud from the apical surface of
    polarized epithelial cells (e.g. bronchial epithelial cells) into
    lumen of lungs and are therefore usually pneumotropic. The reason
    is that HA is cleaved by tryptase clara which is restricted to
    lungs. However, HAs of H5 and H7 pantropic avian viruses subtypes
    can be cleaved by furin and subtilisin-type enzymes, allowing the
    virus to grow in other organs than lungs.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The influenza A genome consist of 8 RNA segments.
    Genetic variation of hemagglutinin and/or neuraminidase genes
    results in the emergence of new influenza strains. The mechanism
    of variation can be the result of point mutations or the result of
    genetic reassortment between segments of two different strains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the influenza viruses hemagglutinin family.
Envelope protein; Fusion protein; Glycoprotein; Hemagglutinin;
Lipoprotein; Membrane; Palmitate; Signal; Transmembrane;
Virion protein.
TMZERO
