AC   O22040; O04030; O22039; Q8GZ05;
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase ANP1 (EC 2.7.11.25)
(Arabidopsis NPK1-related kinase 1).
"Possible involvement of differential splicing in regulation of the
activity of Arabidopsis ANP1 that is related to mitogen-activated
protein kinase kinase kinases (MAPKKKs).";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 1 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Functional annotation of a full-length Arabidopsis cDNA collection.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Functional analysis of oxidative stress-activated mitogen-activated
protein kinase cascade in plants.";
"An Arabidopsis mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase gene
family encodes essential positive regulators of cytokinesis.";
"Mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in plants: a new
nomenclature.";
-!- FUNCTION: Maybe involved oxidative stresse-mediated in signaling
    cascade that phosphorylates downstream MAP kinases MPK3 and MPK6.
    May suppress auxin signaling that promotes cell cycle.
    Functionally redundant to ANP2 and ANP3 in the positive regulation
    of cytokinesis.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + a protein = ADP + a phosphoprotein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1L;
      IsoId=O22040-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=1S;
      IsoId=O22040-2; Sequence=VSP_010124, VSP_010125;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in roots, inflorescence stems,
    flower buds and flowers. Low amount in rosette and cauline leaves.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The protein kinase activity of isoform 1S is higher
    than that of isoform 1L.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. MAP
    kinase kinase kinase subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 protein kinase domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.2 sequence differs from that shown due to erroneous
    gene model prediction.
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; Coiled coil; Kinase;
Nucleotide-binding; Serine/threonine-protein kinase; Transferase.
TMZERO
