AC   P61324;
HPr kinase/phosphorylase (EC 2.7.11.-) (EC 2.7.4.-) (HPrK/P) (HPr(Ser)
kinase/phosphorylase).
"The genome sequence of the probiotic intestinal bacterium
Lactobacillus johnsonii NCC 533.";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the ATP- as well as the pyrophosphate-
    dependent phosphorylation of a specific serine residue in HPr, a
    phosphocarrier protein of the phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS). HprK/P also catalyzes the
    pyrophosphate-producing, inorganic phosphate-dependent
    dephosphorylation (phosphorolysis) of seryl-phosphorylated HPr (P-
    Ser-HPr). The two antagonistic activities of HprK/P are regulated
    by several intracellular metabolites, which change their
    concentration in response to the absence or presence of rapidly
    metabolisable carbon sources (glucose, fructose, etc.) in the
    growth medium. Therefore, by controlling the phosphorylation state
    of HPr, HPrK/P is a sensor enzyme that plays a major role in the
    regulation of carbon metabolism and sugar transport: it mediates
    carbon catabolite repression (CCR), and regulates PTS-catalyzed
    carbohydrate uptake and inducer exclusion (By similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + HPr = ADP + P-Ser-HPr.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: P-Ser-HPr + phosphate = HPr + diphosphate.
-!- COFACTOR: Magnesium (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homohexamer (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The Walker A ATP-binding motif also binds Pi and PPi (By
    similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Both phosphorylation and phosphorolysis are carried
    out by the same active site and suggest a common mechanism for
    both reactions (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the HPrK/P family.
 GO:0000287; F:magnesium ion binding; IEA:HAMAP.
 GO:0004712; F:protein threonine/tyrosine kinase activity; IEA:HAMAP.
ATP-binding; Carbohydrate metabolism; Complete proteome; Kinase;
Magnesium; Metal-binding; Multifunctional enzyme; Nucleotide-binding;
Serine/threonine-protein kinase; Transferase.
TMZERO
