AC   Q9Y251; Q53GE5; Q9UL39;
Heparanase precursor (EC 3.2.-.-) (Heparanase-1) (Hpa1) (Endo-
glucoronidase) [Contains: Heparanase 8 kDa subunit; Heparanase 50 kDa
subunit].
"Cloning and functional expression of a human heparanase gene.";
"Human heparanase. Purification, characterization, cloning, and
expression.";
"Mammalian heparanase: gene cloning, expression and function in tumor
progression and metastasis.";
"Cloning of mammalian heparanase, an important enzyme in tumor
invasion and metastasis.";
"Heparanase expression in invasive trophoblasts and acute vascular
damage.";
"Molecular properties and involvement of heparanase in cancer
progression and mammary gland morphogenesis.";
"Biochemical characterization of the active heterodimer form of human
heparanase (Hpa1) protein expressed in insect cells.";
"Cloned heparanase from MCF-7 cells.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Identification of active-site residues of the pro-metastatic
endoglycosidase heparanase.";
"Secretion of heparanase protein is regulated by glycosylation in
human tumor cell lines.";
"Heparanase uptake is mediated by cell membrane heparan sulfate
proteoglycans.";
"Heparanase processing by lysosomal/endosomal protein preparation.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis, proteolytic cleavage, and activation of
human proheparanase.";
"Identification and characterization of heparin/heparan sulfate
binding domains of the endoglycosidase heparanase.";
"Elucidation of N-glycosylation sites on human platelet proteins: a
glycoproteomic approach.";
"Heparanase mRNA expression and point mutation in hepatocellular
carcinoma.";
-!- FUNCTION: Endoglycosidase which is a cell surface and
    extracellular matrix-degrading enzyme. Cleaves heparan sulfate
    proteoglycans (HSPGs) into heparan sulfate side chains and core
    proteoglycans. Also implicated in the extravasation of leukocytes
    and tumor cell lines. Due to its contribution to metastasis and
    angiogenesis, it is considered to be a potential target for anti-
    cancer therapies.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by EDTA, laminarin sulfate and, to a
    lower extent, by heparin and sulfamin and activated by calcium and
    magnesium (By similarity).
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 4-6;
-!- SUBUNIT: The active heterodimer is composed of the 8 and 50 kDa
    subunits, the proteolytic products.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Lysosome; lysosomal membrane; peripheral
    membrane protein. Secreted protein. Note=Secreted, internalised
    and transferred to late endosomes/lysosomes as a proheparanase. In
    lysosomes, it is processed into the active form, the heparanase.
    The uptake or internalisation of proheparanase is mediated by
    HSPGs. Heparin appears to be a competitor and retain proheparanase
    in the extracellular medium.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in placenta and spleen and
    weakly expressed in lymph node, thymus, peripheral blood
    leukocytes, bone marrow, endothelial cells, fetal liver and tumor
    tissues.
-!- PTM: Proteolytically processed. The cleavage of the 65 kDa form
    leads to the generation of a linker peptide, 8 kDa and 50 kDa
    product. The active form, the 8/50 kDa heterodimer, is resistant
    to degradation. Complete removal of the linker peptide appears to
    be a prerequisite to the complete activation of the enzyme.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated. Glycosylation of the 50 kDa subunit appears
    to be essential for its solubility.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycosyl hydrolase 79 family.
 GO:0004566; F:beta-glucuronidase activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006029; P:proteoglycan metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
Calcium; Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein; Hydrolase; Lysosome;
Magnesium; Membrane; Polymorphism; Signal.
TMZERO
