AC   P00892; P76749;
Acetolactate synthase isozyme II large subunit (EC 2.2.1.6) (AHAS-II)
(Acetohydroxy-acid synthase II large subunit) (ALS-II).
"The complete nucleotide sequence of the ilvGMEDA operon of
Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome: DNA sequence of the region
from 84.5 to 86.5 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Sequence and transcriptional activity of the Escherichia coli K-12
chromosome region between rrnC and ilvGMEDA.";
"Multivalent translational control of transcription termination at
attenuator of ilvGEDA operon of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Purification of Escherichia coli acetohydroxyacid synthase isoenzyme
II and reconstitution of active enzyme from its individual pure
subunits.";
"Molecular basis of valine resistance in Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase of Escherichia coli:
nucleotide sequence of the ilvE gene and the deduced amino acid
sequence.";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis of
    branched-chain amino acids.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: 2 pyruvate = 2-acetolactate + CO(2).
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 FAD molecule per subunit. The role of this
    cofactor is not clear considering that the reaction does not
    involve redox chemistry. However after removal of the FAD no AHAS
    activity can be detected (Ref.6), indicating that the cofactor is
    essential. The large subunit alone does not bind FAD, and FAD is
    not necessary for association of the subunits.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 magnesium ion per subunit. Is not necessary for
    subunit association (Ref.6).
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 thiamine pyrophosphate per subunit. Is not
    necessary for subunit association (Ref.6).
-!- PATHWAY: Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-isoleucine biosynthesis; L-
    isoleucine from 2-oxobutanoate: step 1.
-!- PATHWAY: Amino-acid biosynthesis; L-valine biosynthesis; L-valine
    from pyruvate: step 1.
-!- SUBUNIT: Tetramer of two large (ilvG) and two small (ilvM) chains.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P03024:galR; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-1133701, EBI-556902;
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: E.coli contains genes for 3 AHAS isozymes: ilvBN,
    ilvGM and ilvIH. In strain K12 only the Val-inhibitable ilvBN and
    ilvIH are expressed; ilvGM has a defect that disturbs the ilvG
    reading frame. IlvG (this protein) is Val-resistant and is
    expressed in K12 strains having what used to be referred to as
    ilv0 mutations. The ilv02096 mutation (shown here, an insertion of
    2 bp, Ref.7) causes a frameshift which restores the open reading
    frame, permitting the expression of this isozyme.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the TPP enzyme family.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
Amino-acid biosynthesis; Branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis;
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; FAD; Flavoprotein;
Magnesium; Metal-binding; Thiamine pyrophosphate; Transferase.
TMZERO
