AC   P13647; Q6PI71; Q6UBJ0; Q8TA91;
Keratin, type II cytoskeletal 5 (Cytokeratin-5) (CK-5) (Keratin-5)
(K5) (58 kDa cytokeratin).
"The sequence of the human epidermal 58-kD (#5) type II keratin
reveals an absence of 5' upstream sequence conservation between
coexpressed epidermal keratins.";
"Isolation, sequence, and expression of a human keratin K5 gene:
transcriptional regulation of keratins and insights into pairwise
control.";
"Genomic organization and amplification of the human epidermal type II
keratin genes K1 and K5.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Sequence and expression of a type II keratin, K5, in human epidermal
cells.";
"A new keratin 5 mutation (K199T) in a family with Weber-Cockayne
epidermolysis bullosa simplex.";
"Isolation and characterization of a cDNA clone coding for human
epidermal keratin K5. Sequence of the carboxyterminal half of this
keratin.";
"A mutation in the conserved helix termination peptide of keratin 5 in
hereditary skin blistering.";
"Identification of a leucine-to-proline mutation in the keratin 5 gene
in a family with the generalized Kobner type of epidermolysis bullosa
simplex.";
"Allelic variations of human keratins K4 and K5 provide polymorphic
markers within the type II keratin gene cluster on chromosome 12.";
"Clustering of epidermolysis bullosa simplex mutations in relation to
disease phenotype: data from Weber-Cockayne EBS.";
"Missing links: Weber-Cockayne keratin mutations implicate the L12
linker domain in effective cytoskeleton function.";
"The genetic basis of Weber-Cockayne epidermolysis bullosa simplex.";
"Mutations in the non-helical linker segment L1-2 of keratin 5 in
patients with Weber-Cockayne epidermolysis bullosa simplex.";
"Epidermolysis bullosa simplex: a keratin 5 mutation is a fully
dominant allele in epidermal cytoskeleton function.";
"Epidermolysis bullosa simplex (Weber-Cockayne) associated with a
novel missense mutation of Asp328 to Val in linker 12 domain of
keratin 5.";
"Three keratin gene mutations account for the majority of dominant
simplex epidermolysis bullosa cases within the population of
Ireland.";
"A novel keratin K5 gene mutation in Dowling-Meara epidermolysis
bullosa simplex.";
"The genetic basis of epidermolysis bullosa simplex with mottled
pigmentation.";
"Primers for exon-specific amplification of the KRT5 gene:
identification of novel and recurrent mutations in epidermolysis
bullosa simplex patients.";
"A novel mutation in the helix termination peptide of keratin 5
causing epidermolysis bullosa simplex Dowling-Meara.";
"A novel mutation in the L12 domain of keratin 5 in the Koebner
variant of epidermolysis bullosa simplex.";
"Novel K5 and K14 mutations in German patients with the Weber-Cockayne
variant of epidermolysis bullosa simplex.";
"Epidermolysis bullosa simplex with mottled pigmentation: clinical
aspects and confirmation of the P24L mutation in the KRT5 gene in
further patients.";
"Identification of novel and known mutations in the genes for keratin
5 and 14 in Danish patients with epidermolysis bullosa simplex:
correlation between genotype and phenotype.";
"Laryngeal involvement in the Dowling-Meara variant of epidermolysis
bullosa simplex with keratin mutations of severely disruptive
potential.";
"K5 D328E: a novel missense mutation in the linker 12 domain of
keratin 5 associated with epidermolysis bullosa simplex (Weber-
Cockayne).";
"A novel keratin 5 mutation (K5V186L) in a family with EBS-K: a
conservative substitution can lead to development of different disease
phenotypes.";
"Dominant and recessive compound heterozygous mutations in
epidermolysis bullosa simplex demonstrate the role of the stutter
region in keratin intermediate filament assembly.";
"Epidermolysis bullosa simplex in Israel: clinical and genetic
features.";
"Mutation analysis of the entire keratin 5 and 14 genes in patients
with epidermolysis bullosa simplex and identification of novel
mutations.";
"A usual frameshift and delayed termination codon mutation in keratin
5 causes a novel type of epidermolysis bullosa simplex with migratory
circinate erythema.";
"A new mutation in the linker 12 domain of keratin 5 in a Chinese
family with Weber-Cockayne epidermolysis bullosa simplex.";
"A mutation (N177S) in the structurally conserved helix initiation
peptide motif of keratin 5 causes a mild EBS phenotype.";
"Loss-of-function mutations in the keratin 5 gene lead to Dowling-
Degos disease.";
"Novel and recurrent mutations in keratin KRT5 and KRT14 genes in
epidermolysis bullosa simplex: implications for disease phenotype and
keratin filament assembly.";
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of two type I and two type II keratins.
    Keratin-5 associates with keratin-14.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are a cause of epidermolysis bullosa
    simplex (EBS) [MIM:131760, 131800, 131900, 131960]. Epidermolysis
    bullosa (EB) is a mendelian disorder that can be inherited in an
    autosomal dominant or recessive form and is characterized by
    blistering or erosion of the skin and mucous membranes as a result
    of mild trauma. The incidence at birth of all types of the disease
    is about 1:50,000. Three major clinical subgroups are: simplex
    (EBS), junctional (EBJ), and dystrophic (EBD). EBS is by far the
    most prevalent (65%) and it is characterized by blistering within
    the basal cell layer. Junctional and dystrophic EB are
    characterized by blistering in the plane of the lamina lucida of
    the basement membrane zone and below the dermal-epidermal basement
    membrane at the level of the anchoring fibrils, respectively.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are a cause of epidermolysis bullosa
    simplex Dowling-Meara type (DM-EBS) [MIM:131760]. DM-EBS is the
    most severe of the simplex group and is characterized by
    generalized herpetiform blistering, milia formation, dystrophic
    nails, and mucous membrane involvement.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are the cause of epidermolysis bullosa
    simplex with migratory circinate erythema [MIM:609352]. EBS with
    migratory circinate erythema is milder than the DM-EBS phenotype
    but involves an unusual migratory circinate erythema with multiple
    vesicles on the area affected by the erythema. The lesions, which
    appeared from birth primarily on the hands, feet, and legs but
    spared the nails, ocular epithelia, and mucosae, healed with brown
    pigmentation but no scarring. Electron microscopy findings were
    distinct from those seen in the DM-EBS, with no evidence of
    tonofilament clumping.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are a cause of epidermolysis bullosa
    simplex Weber-Cockayne type (WC-EBS) [MIM:131800]. WC-EBS is
    characterized by blistering in palmar and plantar areas of the
    skin.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are a cause of epidermolysis bullosa
    simplex Koebner type (K-EBS) [MIM:131900]. K-EBS is characterized
    by generalized blistering as the Dowling-Meara type; the phenotype
    however is less severe.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are the cause of epidermolysis bullosa
    simplex with mottled pigmentation (MP-EBS) [MIM:131960]. MP-EBS is
    characterized by additional reticular hyperpigmentation.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KRT5 are the cause of Dowling-Degos disease
    (DDD) [MIM:179850]; also known as Dowling-Degos-Kitamura disease
    or reticulate acropigmentation of Kitamura. DDD is an autosomal
    dominant genodermatosis. Affected individuals develop a
    postpubertal reticulate hyperpigmentation that is progressive and
    disfiguring, and small hyperkeratotic dark brown papules that
    affect mainly the flexures and great skin folds. Patients usually
    show no abnormalities of the hair or nails.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: There are two types of cytoskeletal and
    microfibrillar keratin: I (acidic; 40-55 kDa) [K9 to K20] and II
    (neutral to basic; 56-70 kDa) [K1 to K8].
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the intermediate filament family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Human Intermediate Filament Mutation Database;
    URL="http://www.interfil.org".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=KRT5".
 GO:0005882; C:intermediate filament; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:HGNC.
 GO:0005200; F:structural constituent of cytoskeleton; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008544; P:epidermis development; TAS:ProtInc.
Coiled coil; Disease mutation; Intermediate filament; Keratin;
Phosphorylation; Polymorphism.
TMZERO
