AC   P05131;
cAMP-dependent protein kinase, beta-1-catalytic subunit (EC 2.7.11.11)
(PKA C-beta-1).
"A cloned bovine cDNA encodes an alternate form of the catalytic
subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase.";
"A conserved deamidation site at Asn 2 in the catalytic subunit of
mammalian cAMP-dependent protein kinase detected by capillary LC-MS
and tandem mass spectrometry.";
"Intracellular distribution of mammalian protein kinase A catalytic
subunit altered by conserved Asn2 deamidation.";
"The amino terminus of PKA catalytic subunit- a site for introduction
of posttranslational heterogeneities by deamidation: D-Asp2 and D-
isoAsp2 containing isozymes.";
-!- FUNCTION: Phosphorylates a large number of substrates in the
    cytoplasm and the nucleus.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + a protein = ADP + a phosphoprotein.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Activated by cAMP.
-!- SUBUNIT: A number of inactive tetrameric holoenzymes are produced
    by the combination of homo- or heterodimers of the different
    regulatory subunits associated with two catalytic subunits. cAMP
    causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of
    regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric
    catalytic subunits.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Inactive holoenzyme: Cytoplasm. Monomeric
    catalytic subunit: Cytoplasm. Nucleus. Note=Translocates into the
    nucleus (monomeric catalytic subunit).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
      Comment=N-terminal differences in alternatively spliced products
      could be involved in regulation such as alternative targeting;
    Name=1; Synonyms=Beta-1;
      IsoId=P05131-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Beta-2;
      IsoId=P24256-1; Sequence=External;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- PTM: Asn-2 is deaminated to Asp in more than 25% of the proteins,
    giving rise to 2 major isoelectric variants, called CB and CA
    respectively (0.4 pH unit change). Deamidation proceeds via the
    so-called beta-aspartyl shift mechanism and yields either 'D-Asp-
    2' (major) or 'D-isoAsp-2' (minor), in addition to L-isomers.
    Deamidation occurs after the addition of myristate. The Asn-2 form
    reaches a significantly larger nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio than the
    'Asp-2' form.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. cAMP
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 protein kinase domain.
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; cAMP; Direct protein sequencing;
Kinase; Lipoprotein; Myristate; Nuclear protein; Nucleotide-binding;
Phosphorylation; Serine/threonine-protein kinase; Transferase.
TMZERO
