AC   P42702; Q6LCD9;
Leukemia inhibitory factor receptor precursor (LIF receptor) (LIF-R)
(CD118 antigen).
"Leukemia inhibitory factor receptor is structurally related to the
IL-6 signal transducer, gp130.";
"Human LIF receptor 3' non-coding region.";
"Null leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR) mutations in Stueve-
Wiedemann/Schwartz-Jampel type 2 syndrome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Signal-transducing molecule. May have a common pathway
    with IL6ST. The soluble form inhibits the biological activity of
    LIF by blocking its binding to receptors on target cells.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterodimer composed of LIFR and IL6ST.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Isoform 1: Cell membrane; single-pass type I
    membrane protein. Isoform 2: Secreted protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1; Synonyms=Membrane;
      IsoId=P42702-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Secreted;
      IsoId=P42702-2; Sequence=Not described;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- DOMAIN: The WSXWS motif appears to be necessary for proper protein
    folding and thereby efficient intracellular transport and cell-
    surface receptor binding.
-!- DOMAIN: The box 1 motif is required for JAK interaction and/or
    activation.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in LIFR are the cause of Stueve-Wiedemann
    syndrome (SWS) [MIM:601559]; also called Schwartz-Jampel syndrome
    type 2 or SJS2. SWS is a severe autosomal recessive condition and
    belongs to the group of the bent-bone dysplasias. SWS is
    characterized by bowing of the lower limbs, with internal cortical
    thickening, wide metaphyses with abnormal trabecular pattern, and
    camptodactyly. Additional features include feeding and swallowing
    difficulties, as well as respiratory distress and hyperthermic
    episodes, which cause death in the first months of life. The rare
    survivors develop progressive scoliosis, spontaneous fractures,
    bowing of the lower limbs, with prominent joints and dysautonomia
    symptoms, including temperature instability, absent corneal and
    patellar reflexes, and smooth tongue.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. Type 2
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 6 fibronectin type-III domains.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0004923; F:leukemia inhibitory factor receptor activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007166; P:cell surface receptor linked signal transdu...; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Polymorphism; Receptor; Repeat; Signal; Transmembrane.
TMONE
