AC   P37957; O34644; Q2XU59;
Lipase precursor (EC 3.1.1.3) (Triacylglycerol lipase).
"Cloning, nucleotide sequence and expression in Escherichia coli of a
lipase gene from Bacillus subtilis 168.";
"A 32 kb nucleotide sequence from the region of the lincomycin-
resistance gene (22 degrees-25 degrees) of the Bacillus subtilis
chromosome and identification of the site of the lin-2 mutation.";
"Molecular characterization of a lipase from a strain of Bacillus
subtilis.";
"The complete genome sequence of the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus
subtilis.";
"Purification and preliminary characterization of the extracellular
lipase of Bacillus subtilis 168, an extremely basic pH-tolerant
enzyme.";
"The crystal structure of Bacillus subtilis lipase: a minimal
alpha/beta hydrolase fold enzyme.";
"Alternate conformations observed in catalytic serine of Bacillus
subtilis lipase determined at 1.3 A resolution.";
-!- FUNCTION: Active toward p-nitrophenyl esters and triacylglycerides
    with a marked preference for esters with C8 acyl groups.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Triacylglycerol + H(2)O = diacylglycerol + a
    carboxylate.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Strongly inhibited when incubated with the
    serine reagent phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Activated by the
    addition of calcium to the reaction mixture. When calcium was
    incubated with the lipase but not added to the reaction mixture,
    its effect is lower but still observable. Magnesium, manganese and
    strontium are not able to replace calcium with full retention of
    activity.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 10. The activity decreases strongly above pH 10.5
      or below pH 6.5. The enzyme is remarkably stable at alkaline pH,
      showing maximum stability at pH 12 and retaining more than 65%
      of its activity after 24 hours at pH 13;
    Temperature dependence:
      Optimum temperature is 35 degrees Celsius. Stable for at least
      30 minutes at 40 degrees Celsius. Virtually no activity remains
      after 30 minutes at 55 degrees Celsius;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- INDUCTION: Maximally expressed in late exponential growth phase.
    Expression decreases rapidly in the stationary phase.
 GO:0004806; F:triacylglycerol lipase activity; IEA:EC.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Hydrolase; Lipid degradation; Signal.
TMZERO
