AC   P16581; P16111;
E-selectin precursor (Endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1)
(ELAM-1) (Leukocyte-endothelial cell adhesion molecule 2) (LECAM2)
(CD62E antigen).
"Endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1: direct expression cloning
and functional interactions.";
"Endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1: an inducible receptor for
neutrophils related to complement regulatory proteins and lectins.";
"Structure and chromosomal location of the gene for endothelial-
leukocyte adhesion molecule 1.";
"SeattleSNPs. NHLBI HL66682 program for genomic applications, UW-
FHCRC, Seattle, WA (URL: http://pga.gs.washington.edu).";
"The DNA sequence and biological annotation of human chromosome 1.";
"ELAM-1 mediates cell adhesion by recognition of a carbohydrate
ligand, sialyl-Lex.";
"Modelling the carbohydrate recognition domain of human E-selectin.";
"Insight into E-selectin/ligand interaction from the crystal structure
and mutagenesis of the lec/EGF domains.";
"E-selectin polymorphism and atherosclerosis: an association study.";
"DNA polymorphisms in adhesion molecule genes -- a new risk factor for
early atherosclerosis.";
"A PstI polymorphism detects the mutation of serine-128 to arginine in
CD 62E gene - a risk factor for coronary artery disease.";
"Patterns of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in candidate genes for
blood-pressure homeostasis.";
"Relationship between E-selectin L/F554 polymorphism and blood
pressure in the Stanislas cohort.";
-!- FUNCTION: Expressed on cytokine induced endothelial cells and
    mediates their binding to leukocytes. The ligand recognized by
    ELAM-1 is sialyl-lewis X (alpha(1->3)fucosylated derivatives of
    polylactosamine that are found at the nonreducing termini of
    glycolipids).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: A polymorphism in position 149 is associated with a
    higher risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). A significantly
    higher mutation frequency (Arg-149) is observed in patients with
    angiographically proven severe atherosclerosis compared with an
    unselected population (Ser-149).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the selectin/LECAM family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 C-type lectin domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 EGF-like domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 6 Sushi (CCP/SCR) domains.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006954; P:inflammatory response; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Cell adhesion; EGF-like domain; Glycoprotein; Lectin;
Membrane; Polymorphism; Repeat; Signal; Sushi; Transmembrane.
TMONE
