AC   P03487;
Matrix protein 1 (M1).
"Evolution of the nucleotide sequence of influenza virus RNA segment 7
during drift of the H3N2 subtype.";
-!- FUNCTION: Plays critical roles in virus replication, from virus
    entry and uncoating to assembly and budding of the virus particle.
    M1 binding to ribonucleocapsids (RNPs) in nucleus seems to inhibit
    viral transcription. Interaction of viral NEP with M1-RNP is
    thought to promote nuclear export of the complex, which is
    targeted to the virion assembly site at the apical plasma membrane
    in polarized epithelial cells. Interactions with NA and HA may
    bring M1, a non-raft-associated protein, into lipid rafts. Forms a
    continuous shell on the inner side of the lipid bilayer in virion,
    where it binds the RNP. During virus entry into cell, the M2 ion
    channel acidifies the internal virion core, inducing M1
    dissociation from the RNP. M1-free RNPs are transported to the
    nucleus, where viral transcription and replication can take place
    (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Determines the virion's shape: spherical or filamentous.
    Clinical isolates of influenza are characterized by the presence
    of significant proportion of filamentous virions, whereas after
    multiple passage on eggs or cell culture, virions have only
    spherical morphology. Filamentous virions are thought to be
    important to infect neighboring cells, and spherical virions more
    suited to spread through aerosol between hosts organisms (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer and homomultimer. Interacts with NEP. Binds
    ribonucleocapsid by both interacting with genomic RNA and NP
    protein. May interact with HA and NA. Cannot bind NP without
    genomic RNA (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Virion; virion membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein (By similarity). Nucleus (By similarity).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
      Comment=Only the first 9 residues are shared by the 2 isoforms;
    Name=M1;
      IsoId=P03487-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=M2;
      IsoId=P03491-1; Sequence=External;
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Most abundant protein in virion. When expressed
    alone can form virus-like particles in transfected cells.
Alternative splicing; Nuclear protein; RNA-binding;
Viral matrix protein; Virion protein.
TMZERO
