AC   P06446; P27567; Q91UL5; Q9YIJ5; Q9YIM6; Q9YNG5; Q9YNG6; Q9YNG7;
AC   Q9YNG8; Q9YNG9; Q9YNH0; Q9YZ78;
Matrix protein (M protein).
"Nucleotide sequence of a Sendai virus genome region covering the
entire M gene and the 3' proximal 1013 nucleotides of the F gene.";
"Nucleotide sequence analyses of the genes encoding the HN, M, NP, P,
and L proteins of two host range mutants of Sendai virus.";
"Pneumotropic revertants derived from a pantropic mutant, F1-R, of
Sendai virus.";
"Budding site of Sendai virus in polarized epithelial cells is one of
the determinants for tropism and pathogenicity in mice.";
"Determinants of pantropism of the F1-R mutant of Sendai virus:
specific mutations involved are in the F and M genes.";
"Microscopy of internal structures of Sendai virus associated with the
cytoplasmic surface of host membranes.";
"Phosphorylation of the Sendai virus M protein is not essential for
virus replication either in vitro or in vivo.";
"Assembly of Sendai virus: M protein interacts with F and HN proteins
and with the cytoplasmic tail and transmembrane domain of F protein.";
"Alteration of Sendai virus morphogenesis and nucleocapsid
incorporation due to mutation of cysteine residues of the matrix
protein.";
"Interaction of cellular tubulin with Sendai virus M protein regulates
transcription of viral genome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Plays a crucial role in virion assembly and budding.
    Forms a shell at the inner face of the plasma membrane and
    concentrates the HN and F glycoproteins. Acts as a negative
    regulator for transcription and replication by sticking to the
    nucleocapsid. This effect might be regulated by the cytoplasmic
    interaction with tubulin that dissociates the M protein from the
    nucleocapsid.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homomultimer. Binds to the cytoplasmic regions of F and
    HN proteins. Interacts with nucleocapsid. Interacts with human
    alpha-tubulin and beta-tubulin.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm. Note=During bud formation,
    associates at the inner side of the plasma membrane of infected
    cells.
-!- PTM: A large portion is phosphorylated in the cytoplasm, but not
    in virion. However, this phosphorylation is not essential for
    virus replication.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the paramyxoviruses M protein family.
Host-virus interaction; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Viral matrix protein; Virion protein.
TMZERO
