AC   P03879; Q02324; Q9ZZW6;
Intron-encoded RNA maturase bI4 precursor (RNA maturase SCbI4)
[Contains: Truncated, nonfunctional cytochrome b; RNA maturase bI4
(EC 3.1.-.-)].
"Assembly of the mitochondrial membrane system. DNA sequence and
organization of the cytochrome b gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
D273-10B.";
"The complete sequence of the mitochondrial genome of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae.";
"Connections between RNA splicing and DNA intron mobility in yeast
mitochondria: RNA maturase and DNA endonuclease switching
experiments.";
"The NAM2 proteins from S. cerevisiae and S. douglasii are
mitochondrial leucyl-tRNA synthetases, and are involved in mRNA
splicing.";
"Synthesis and function of the mitochondrial intron -- encoded bI4 RNA
maturase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Effects of upstream frameshift
mutations.";
"Introns as mobile genetic elements.";
"The bI4 group I intron binds directly to both its protein splicing
partners, a tRNA synthetase and maturase, to facilitate RNA splicing
activity.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mitochondrial mRNA maturase required for splicing of
    intron 4 of the cytochrome b (COB) gene, containing its own coding
    sequence, and intron 4 in COX1, coding for the related homing
    endonuclease aI4. In vivo splicing requires in addition the
    imported mitochondrial leucyl-tRNA synthetase NAM2. Both proteins
    seem to stimulate the intrinsic ribozyme activity of intron bI4
    through binding to and stabilizing specific secondary and tertiary
    structure elements in the RNA.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms a ternary complex with intron derived RNA and the
    imported mitochondrial leucyl-tRNA synthetase NAM2. The proteins
    do not interact directly with each other.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion.
-!- PTM: The mature protein may arise from proteolytic cleavage of an
    in-frame translation of COB exons 1 to 4 plus intron 4, containing
    the bI4 open reading frame. Cleavage would take place close to the
    Met-385 resulting in an active maturase of about 30 kDa.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Residues 385 to 638 are sufficient for maturase
    activity.
-!- SIMILARITY: In the C-terminal section; belongs to the LAGLIDADG
    endonuclease family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 sequence differs from that shown because COB was
    not predicted to be expressed alternatively as a fusion with
    intron 4.
 GO:0005739; C:mitochondrion; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0003723; F:RNA binding; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0000372; P:Group I intron splicing; IDA:SGD.
Complete proteome; Mitochondrion; mRNA processing; mRNA splicing.
TMZERO
