AC   P01023; Q13677; Q59F47; Q5QTS0; Q68DN2; Q6PIY3; Q6PN97;
Alpha-2-macroglobulin precursor (Alpha-2-M).
"Nucleotide sequence of cDNA encoding human alpha 2-macroglobulin and
assignment of the chromosomal locus.";
"Structure of the human alpha-2 macroglobulin gene and its promotor.";
"Alpha 2 macroglobulin, a PSA-binding protein, is expressed in human
prostate stroma.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Primary structure of human alpha 2-macroglobulin. V. The complete
structure.";
"Primary structure of human alpha 2-macroglobulin. Complete disulfide
bridge assignment and localization of two interchain bridges in the
dimeric proteinase binding unit.";
"A genetic polymorphism in a functional domain of human pregnancy zone
protein: the bait region. Genomic structure of the bait domains of
human pregnancy zone protein and alpha 2 macroglobulin.";
"Cloning of the human alpha 2-macroglobulin gene and detection of
mutations in two functional domains: the bait region and the
thiolester site.";
"Human alpha 2-macroglobulin gene is located on chromosome 12.";
"Identification and quantification of N-linked glycoproteins using
hydrazide chemistry, stable isotope labeling and mass spectrometry.";
"Human neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G cleavage sites in the bait
region of alpha 2-macroglobulin. Proposed structural limits of the
bait region.";
"Primary structure of the 'bait' region for proteinases in alpha 2-
macroglobulin. Nature of the complex.";
"Proteolytic cleavage sites on alpha 2-macroglobulin resulting in
proteinase binding are different for trypsin and Staphylococcus aureus
V-8 proteinase.";
"Primary and secondary cleavage sites in the bait region of alpha 2-
macroglobulin.";
"Screening for N-glycosylated proteins by liquid chromatography mass
spectrometry.";
"Human plasma N-glycoproteome analysis by immunoaffinity subtraction,
hydrazide chemistry, and mass spectrometry.";
"Localization of basic residues required for receptor binding to the
single alpha-helix of the receptor binding domain of human alpha2-
macroglobulin.";
"Sequence polymorphism in the human alpha2-macroglobulin (A2M) gene.";
-!- FUNCTION: Is able to inhibit all four classes of proteinases by a
    unique 'trapping' mechanism. This protein has a peptide stretch,
    called the 'bait region' which contains specific cleavage sites
    for different proteinases. When a proteinase cleaves the bait
    region, a conformational change is induced in the protein which
    traps the proteinase. The entrapped enzyme remains active against
    low molecular weight substrates (activity against high molecular
    weight substrates is greatly reduced). Following cleavage in the
    bait region a thioester bond is hydrolyzed and mediates the
    covalent binding of the protein to the proteinase.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer; disulfide-linked.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Plasma.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Contrary to the rat protein, which is an
    acute phase protein, this protein is always present at high levels
    in circulation.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the protease inhibitor I39 (alpha-2-
    macroglobulin) family.
 GO:0005576; C:extracellular region; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0004866; F:endopeptidase inhibitor activity; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019899; F:enzyme binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019966; F:interleukin-1 binding; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019959; F:interleukin-8 binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0043120; F:tumor necrosis factor binding; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0051260; P:protein homooligomerization; NAS:UniProtKB.
3D-structure; Bait region; Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein;
Polymorphism; Protease inhibitor; Serine protease inhibitor; Signal;
Thioester bond.
TMZERO
