AC   P21812; Q9EPQ9; Q9EQT2;
Mast cell protease 4 precursor (EC 3.4.21.-) (MMCP-4) (Serosal mast
cell protease) (MSMCP) (Myonase).
"Cloning of the cDNA and gene for mouse mast cell protease 4.
Demonstration of its late transcription in mast cell subclasses and
analysis of its homology to subclass-specific neutral proteases of the
mouse and rat.";
"Independent influence of strain difference and mi transcription
factor on the expression of mouse mast cell chymases.";
"Cloning and structural analysis of MMCP-1, MMCP-4 and MMCP-5, three
mouse mast cell-specific serine proteases.";
"Purification and characterization of myonase from X-chromosome linked
muscular dystrophic mouse skeletal muscle.";
"Different mouse mast cell populations express various combinations of
at least six distinct mast cell serine proteases.";
"Biochemical and immunological characterization of multiple glycoforms
of mouse mast cell protease 1: comparison with an isolated murine
serosal mast cell protease (MMCP-4).";
"The chymase, mouse mast cell protease 4, constitutes the major
chymotrypsin-like activity in peritoneum and ear tissue. A role for
mouse mast cell protease 4 in thrombin regulation and fibronectin
turnover.";
-!- FUNCTION: Has chymotrypsin-like activity. Hydrolyzes the amide
    bonds of synthetic substrates having Tyr and Phe residues at the
    P1 position. Preferentially hydrolyzes the 'Tyr-4-|-Ile-5' bond of
    angiotensin I and the 'Phe-20-|-Ala-21' bond of amyloid beta-
    protein, and is less active towards the 'Phe-8-|-His-9' bond of
    angiotensin I and the 'Phe-4-|-Ala-5' and 'Tyr-10-|-Glu-11' bonds
    of amyloid beta-protein. Involved in thrombin regulation and
    fibronectin processing.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Completely inhibited by serine protease
    inhibitors such as chymostatin, diisopropylfluorophosphate and
    phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, but not by p-tosyl-L-phenylalanine
    chloromethyl ketone, p-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethyl ketone,
    pepstatin, E-64, EDTA or o-phenanthroline. Also inhibited by lima
    bean trypsin inhibitor, soy bean trypsin inhibitor and human
    plasma alpha1-antichymotrysin.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 9 at high salt concentrations;
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Submucosal mast cells. In femoral muscle,
    detected in myocytes but not in mast cells.
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=25187; METHOD=MALDI; RANGE=21-246;
    NOTE=Ref.4.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mice lacking Mcpt4 display an impaired ability to
    inactivate thrombin or degrade fibronectin in peritoneal cells.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peptidase S1 family. Granzyme
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S1 domain.
 GO:0004252; F:serine-type endopeptidase activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006508; P:proteolysis; IDA:UniProtKB.
Direct protein sequencing; Hydrolase; Polymorphism; Protease;
Serine protease; Signal; Zymogen.
TMZERO
