AC   O62685; O19125;
Membrane cofactor protein precursor (CD46 antigen) (Fragment).
"Artificial mutations and natural variations in the CD46 molecules
from human and monkey cells define regions important for measles virus
binding.";
"A single amino acid change in the hemagglutinin protein of measles
virus determines its ability to bind CD46 and reveals another receptor
on marmoset B cells.";
"Inhibiting measles virus infection but promoting reproduction: an
explanation for splicing and tissue-specific expression of CD46.";
-!- FUNCTION: Acts as a cofactor for complement factor I, a serine
    protease which protects autologous cells against complement-
    mediated injury by cleaving C3b and C4b deposited on host tissue.
    May be involved in the fusion of the spermatozoa with the oocyte
    during fertilization. Also acts as a co-stimulatory factor for T-
    cells which induces the differentiation of CD4+ into T-regulatory
    1 cells. T-regulatory 1 cells suppress immune responses by
    secreting interleukin-10, and therefore are thought to prevent
    autoimmunity (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with C3b and C4b (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Acrosome; acrosomal inner membrane; single-
    pass type I membrane protein (By similarity). Note=Inner acrosomal
    membrane of spermatozoa (By similarity).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=O62685-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=O62685-2; Sequence=VSP_019048, VSP_019049;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Present in blood and sperm. Isoform 2, but not
    isoform 1, is present at the erythrocyte membrane (at protein
    level).
-!- DOMAIN: Sushi domains 3 and 4 are the most important for
    interaction with C3b and C4b (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated. Probably less N-glycosylated in testis.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 4 Sushi (CCP/SCR) domains.
Alternative splicing; Complement pathway; Fertilization; Glycoprotein;
Immune response; Innate immunity; Membrane; Repeat; Signal; Sushi.
TMZERO
