AC   P52002; Q9S505;
Multidrug resistance protein mexB (Multidrug-efflux transporter mexB).
"Cloning and sequence analysis of an EnvCD homologue in Pseudomonas
aeruginosa: regulation by iron and possible involvement in the
secretion of the siderophore pyoverdine.";
"Complete genome sequence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, an
opportunistic pathogen.";
"Molecular mechanisms of bacterial virulence elucidated using a
Pseudomonas aeruginosa-Caenorhabditis elegans pathogenesis model.";
"Global analysis of the membrane subproteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa
using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.";
"Multiple antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa: evidence
for involvement of an efflux operon.";
"Role of mexA-mexB-oprM in antibiotic efflux in Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.";
"Role of the multidrug efflux systems of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in
organic solvent tolerance.";
"Membrane topology of the xenobiotic-exporting subunit, MexB, of the
MexA,B-OprM extrusion pump in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.";
-!- FUNCTION: The inner membrane transporter component of the mexAB-
    oprM efflux system that confers multidrug resistance. Also
    functions as the major efflux pump for n-hexane and p-xylene
    efflux. Over-expression of the pump increases antibiotic and
    solvent efflux capacities. Implicated in the secretion of the
    siderophore pyoverdine.
-!- FUNCTION: The ability to export antibiotics and solvents is
    dramatically decreased in the presence of the proton conductor
    carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), showing that an
    energized inner membrane is required for efflux. It is thought
    that the mexB subunit is a proton antiporter.
-!- SUBUNIT: Component of the mexAB-oprM multidrug efflux complex
    composed of an unknown number of mexA subunits, mexB and an oprM
    homotrimer. The mexA subunits are thought to form a barrel between
    the mexB inner membrane transporter and the trimeric oprM outer
    membrane channel protein which allows substrates to pass directly
    from the cytoplasm to the external mileu. How the mexA subunits
    interact with oprM and mexB, and how the oprM channel is opened is
    unknown.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- INDUCTION: By growth under severe iron limitation.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the acrB/acrD/acrF (TC 2.A.6) family.
Antibiotic resistance; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Inner membrane; Membrane; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
