AC   P08592;
Amyloid beta A4 protein precursor (APP) (ABPP) (Alzheimer disease
amyloid protein homolog) (Amyloidogenic glycoprotein) (AG) [Contains:
Soluble APP-alpha (S-APP-alpha); Soluble APP-beta (S-APP-beta); C99;
Beta-amyloid protein 42 (Beta-APP42); Beta-amyloid protein 40 (Beta-
APP40); C83; P3(42); P3(40); Gamma-CTF(59) (Gamma-secretase C-terminal
fragment 59); Gamma-CTF(57) (Gamma-secretase C-terminal fragment 57);
Gamma-CTF(50) (Gamma-secretase C-terminal fragment 50); C31].
"Alzheimer's disease amyloidogenic glycoprotein: expression pattern in
rat brain suggests a role in cell contact.";
"Amyloid beta protein precursor is possibly a heparan sulfate
proteoglycan core protein.";
"Purification and tissue level of the beta-amyloid peptide precursor
of rat brain.";
"The sequence of the two extra exons in rat preA4.";
"Distinct intramembrane cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein
family resembling gamma-secretase-like cleavage of Notch.";
"APP gene family. Alternative splicing generates functionally related
isoforms.";
"The Alzheimer amyloid precursor proteoglycan (appican) is present in
brain and is produced by astrocytes but not by neurons in primary
neural cultures.";
"Expression of the APP gene family in brain cells, brain development
and aging.";
"A 127-kDa protein (UV-DDB) binds to the cytoplasmic domain of the
Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein.";
"The amyloid precursor protein interacts with Go heterotrimeric
protein within a cell compartment specialized in signal
transduction.";
"The beta A4 amyloid precursor protein binding to copper.";
"The chondroitin sulfate attachment site of appican is formed by
splicing out exon 15 of the amyloid precursor gene.";
"The A beta peptide of Alzheimer's disease directly produces hydrogen
peroxide through metal ion reduction.";
"Histidine-13 is a crucial residue in the zinc ion-induced aggregation
of the A beta peptide of Alzheimer's disease.";
"Role of glycine-33 and methionine-35 in Alzheimer's amyloid beta-
peptide 1-42-associated oxidative stress and neurotoxicity.";
"The cytoplasmic domain of Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein is
phosphorylated at Thr654, Ser655, and Thr668 in adult rat brain and
cultured cells.";
"Phosphorylation of the cytoplasmic domain of Alzheimer's beta-amyloid
precursor protein at Ser655 by a novel protein kinase.";
"Role of phosphorylation of Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein
during neuronal differentiation.";
"Neuron-specific phosphorylation of Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor
protein by cyclin-dependent kinase 5.";
"Appican, the proteoglycan form of the amyloid precursor protein,
contains chondroitin sulfate E in the repeating disaccharide region
and 4-O-sulfated galactose in the linkage region.";
-!- FUNCTION: Functions as a cell surface receptor and performs
    physiological functions on the surface of neurons relevant to
    neurite growth, neuronal adhesion and axonogenesis. Involved in
    cell mobility and transcription regulation through protein-protein
    interactions (By similarity). Can promote transcription activation
    through binding to APBB1/Tip60 and inhibit Notch signaling through
    interaction with Numb (By similarity). Couples to apoptosis-
    inducing pathways such as those mediated by G(O) and JIP. Inhibits
    G(o) alpha ATPase activity. Acts as a kinesin I membrane receptor,
    mediating the axonal transport of beta-secretase and presenilin 1
    (By similarity). May be involved in copper homeostasis/oxidative
    stress through copper ion reduction. Can regulate neurite
    outgrowth through binding to components of the extracellular
    matrix such as heparin and collagen I and IV (By similarity). The
    splice isoforms that contain the BPTI domain possess protease
    inhibitor activity (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Beta-amyloid peptides are lipophilic metal chelators
    with metal-reducing activity. Bind transient metals such as
    copper, zinc and iron. Rat and mouse beta-amyloid peptides bind
    only weakly transient metals and have little reducing activity due
    to substitutions of transient metal chelating residues. Beta-APP42
    may activate mononuclear phagocytes in the brain and elicit
    inflammatory responses. Promotes both tau aggregation and TPK II-
    mediated phosphorylation (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Appicans elicit adhesion of neural cells to the
    extracellular matrix and may regulate neurite outgrowth in the
    brain.
-!- FUNCTION: The gamma-CTF peptides as well as the caspase-cleaved
    peptides, including C31, are potent enhancers of neuronal
    apoptosis (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Binds, via its C-terminus, to the PID domain of several
    cytoplasmic proteins, including APBB family members, the APBA
    family, MAPK8IP1, SHC1 and Numb and Dab1 (By similarity). Binding
    to Dab1 inhibits its serine phosphorylation (By similarity). Also
    interacts with GPCR-like protein BPP, FPRL1, APPBP1, IB1, KNS2
    (via its TPR domains), APPBP2 (via BaSS) (By similarity) and DDB1.
    In vitro, it binds MAPT via the MT-binding domains (By
    similarity). Associates with microtubules in the presence of ATP
    and in a kinesin-dependent manner (By similarity). Interacts,
    through a C-terminal domain, with GNAO1. Amyloid beta-42 binds
    CHRNA7 in hippocampal neurons (By similarity). Beta-amyloid
    associates with HADH2 (By similarity). Interacts with CPEB1 (By
    similarity).
-!- INTERACTION:
    P46933:Apbb1; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-286155, EBI-286177;
    O35827:Apbb3; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-286155, EBI-286163;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein. Note=Cell surface protein that rapidly becomes
    internalized via clathrin-coated pits. During maturation, the
    immature APP (N-glycosylated in the endoplasmic reticulum) moves
    to the Golgi complex where complete maturation occurs (O-
    glycosylated and sulfated). After alpha-secretase cleavage,
    soluble APP is released into the extracellular space and the C-
    terminal is internalized to endosomes and lysosomes. Some APP
    accumulates in secretory transport vesicles leaving the late Golgi
    compartment and returns to the cell surface. Gamma-CTF(59) peptide
    is located to both the cytoplasm and nuclei of neurons. It can be
    translocated to the nucleus through association with Fe65 (By
    similarity). Beta-APP42 associates with FPRL1 at the cell surface
    and the complex is then rapidly internalized (By similarity). APP
    sorts to the basolateral surface in epithelial cells (By
    similarity). During neuronal differentiation, the Thr-743
    phosphorylated form is located mainly in growth cones, moderately
    in neurites and sparingly in the cell body.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=8;
    Name=APP770;
      IsoId=P08592-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=APP695;
      IsoId=P08592-2; Sequence=VSP_000015, VSP_000016;
    Name=L-APP677;
      IsoId=P08592-3; Sequence=Not described;
      Note=L-isoforms are referred to as appicans;
    Name=L-APP696;
      IsoId=P08592-4; Sequence=Not described;
      Note=L-isoforms are referred to as appicans;
    Name=APP714;
      IsoId=P08592-5; Sequence=Not described;
    Name=L-APP733;
      IsoId=P08592-6; Sequence=Not described;
      Note=L-isoforms are referred to as appicans;
    Name=APP751;
      IsoId=P08592-7; Sequence=Not described;
    Name=L-APP752;
      IsoId=P08592-8; Sequence=Not described;
      Note=L-isoforms are referred to as appicans;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: In the brain, non-L-APP isoforms are expressed
    in neurons, isoform APP695 being the predominant form. In
    astrocytes and microglial cells, almost 50% is L-isoform
    (appican).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: From 6 days to 7 months, levels of KPI-
    containing isoforms increase in the brain cortex and hippocampus.
    Levels of L-APP increase in all brian regions during the same
    period, but levels are low compared to non-L-APP isoforms.
-!- INDUCTION: Phosphorylation of mature, glycosylated APP occurs 48-
    72 hours after treatment of neuronal cells with nerve growth
    factor which correlates with the timing of neurite outgrowth.
-!- DOMAIN: The basolateral sorting signal (BaSS) is required for
    sorting of membrane proteins to the basolateral surface of
    epithelial cells.
-!- DOMAIN: The NPXY sequence motif found in many tyrosine-
    phosphorylated proteins is required for the specific binding of
    the PID domain. However, additional amino acids either N- or C-
    terminal to the NPXY motif are often required for complete
    interaction. The PID domain-containing proteins which bind APP
    require the YENPTY motif for full interaction. These interactions
    are independent of phosphorylation on the terminal tyrosine
    residue. The NPXY site is also involved in clathrin-mediated
    endocytosis.
-!- PTM: Proteolytically processed under normal cellular conditions.
    Cleavage by alpha-secretase or alternatively by beta-secretase
    leads to generation and extracellular release of soluble APP
    peptides, S-APP-alpha and S-APP-beta, respectively, and the
    retention of corresponding membrane-anchored C-terminal fragments,
    C83 and C99. Subsequent processing of C83 by gamma-secretase
    yields P3 peptides. This is the major secretory pathway and is
    non-amyloidogenic. Alternatively, presenilin/nicastrin-mediated
    gamma-secretase processing of C99 releases the amyloid beta
    proteins, amyloid-beta 40 (Abeta40) and amyloid-beta 42 (Abeta42),
    major components of amyloid plaques, and the cytotoxic C-terminal
    fragments, gamma-CTF(50), gamma-CTF(57) and gamma-CTF(59).
-!- PTM: Proteolytically cleaved by caspases during neuronal apoptosis
    (By similarity). Cleavage at Asp-739 by either caspase-3, -8 or -9
    results in the production of the neurotoxic C31 peptide and the
    increased production of beta-amyloid peptides (By similarity).
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated.
-!- PTM: O-glycosylated. O-linkage of chondroitin sulfate to the L-APP
    isoforms produces the APP proteoglycan core proteins, the
    appicans. The chondroitin sulfate chain of appicans contains 4-O-
    sulfated galactose in the linkage region and chondroitin sulfate E
    in the repeated disaccharide region.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation in the C-terminal on tyrosine, threonine and
    serine residues is neuron-specific. Phosphorylation can affect APP
    processing, neuronal differentiation and interaction with other
    proteins. The Thr-743 phosphorylated form causes a conformational
    change which reduces binding of Fe65 family members.
    Phosphorylation on Tyr-757 is required for SHC binding.
    Phosphorylated in the extracellular domain by casein kinases on
    both soluble and membrane-bound APP. This phosphorylation is
    inhibited by heparin.
-!- PTM: Extracellular binding and reduction of copper, results in a
    corresponding oxidation of Cys-144 and Cys-158, and the formation
    of a disulfide bond (By similarity).
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=5911.3; METHOD=MALDI; RANGE=721-770;
    NOTE=Ref.5.
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=6024.4; METHOD=MALDI; RANGE=720-770;
    NOTE=Ref.5.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Chelation of metal ions, notably copper, iron and
    zinc, can induce histidine-bridging between beta-amyloid molecules
    resulting in beta-amyloid-metal aggregates. Rat and mouse beta-
    amyloid peptides have an arginine residue substituted for the
    bridging histidine residue and are thus less capable of forming
    amyloid aggegates. Extracellular zinc-binding increases binding of
    heparin to APP and inhibits collagen-binding (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the APP family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 BPTI/Kunitz inhibitor domain.
 GO:0016504; F:protease activator activity; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0006917; P:induction of apoptosis; IDA:RGD.
3D-structure; Alternative splicing; Amyloid; Apoptosis; Cell adhesion;
Coated pits; Copper; Direct protein sequencing; Endocytosis;
Glycoprotein; Heparin-binding; Iron; Membrane; Metal-binding;
Notch signaling pathway; Phosphorylation; Protease inhibitor;
Proteoglycan; Serine protease inhibitor; Signal; Transmembrane; Zinc.
TMONE
