AC   Q92887; Q14022; Q92500; Q92798; Q99663; Q9UMS2;
Canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter 1 (ATP-binding
cassette sub-family C member 2) (Multidrug resistance-associated
protein 2) (Canalicular multidrug resistance protein).
"A human canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter (cMOAT)
gene is overexpressed in cisplatin-resistant human cancer cell lines
with decreased drug accumulation.";
"cDNA cloning of the hepatocyte canalicular isoform of the multidrug
resistance protein, cMrp, reveals a novel conjugate export pump
deficient in hyperbilirubinemic mutant rats.";
"Exon-intron organization of the human multidrug-resistance protein 2
(MRP2) gene mutated in Dubin-Johnson syndrome.";
"Hepatic secretion of conjugated drugs and endogenous substances.";
"Mutation of Trp1254 in the multispecific organic anion transporter,
multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2) (ABCC2), alters substrate
specificity and results in loss of methotrexate transport activity.";
"Mutations in the canilicular multispecific organic anion transporter
(cMOAT) gene, a novel ABC transporter, in patients with
hyperbilirubinemia II/Dubin-Johnson syndrome.";
"Genomic structure of the canalicular multispecific organic anion-
transporter gene (MRP2/cMOAT) and mutations in the ATP-binding-
cassette region in Dubin-Johnson syndrome.";
"Impaired protein maturation of the conjugate export pump multidrug
resistance protein 2 as a consequence of a deletion mutation in Dubin-
Johnson syndrome.";
"Identification and functional analysis of two novel mutations in the
multidrug resistance protein 2 gene in Israeli patients with Dubin-
Johnson syndrome.";
"Polymorphism of the ABC transporter genes, MDR1, MRP1 and MRP2/cMOAT,
in healthy Japanese subjects.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates hepatobiliary excretion of numerous organic
    anions. May function as a cellular cisplatin transporter.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Found on the apical membrane of polarized
    cells in liver, kidney and intestine. The highest expression is
    found in liver.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCC2 are the cause of Dubin-Johnson syndrome
    (DJS) [MIM:237500]. DJS is an autosomal recessive disorder
    characterized by conjugated hyperbilirubinemia, an increase in the
    urinary excretion of coproporphyrin isomer I, deposition of
    melanin-like pigment in hepatocytes, and prolonged retention of
    sulfobromophthalein, but otherwise normal liver function.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. Conjugate
    transporter (TC 3.A.1.208) subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transmembrane type-1 domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transporter domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ABCC2".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0042626; F:ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane m...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008514; F:organic anion transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
ATP-binding; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Nucleotide-binding; Polymorphism; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSEVENTEEN
