AC   P0C0S1; P11666; Q2M9R8;
Small-conductance mechanosensitive channel.
"Identification, molecular cloning and sequence analysis of a gene
cluster encoding the class II fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase, 3-
phosphoglycerate kinase and a putative second glyceraldehyde 3-
phosphate dehydrogenase of Escherichia coli.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Pressure-sensitive ion channel in Escherichia coli.";
"Characterization of mechanosensitive channels in Escherichia coli
cytoplasmic membrane by whole-cell patch clamp recording.";
"Protection of Escherichia coli cells against extreme turgor by
activation of MscS and MscL mechanosensitive channels: identification
of genes required for MscS activity.";
"Purification of the small mechanosensitive channel of Escherichia
coli (MscS): the subunit structure, conduction, and gating
characteristics in liposomes.";
"Functional design of bacterial mechanosensitive channels. Comparisons
and contrasts illuminated by random mutagenesis.";
"C termini of the Escherichia coli mechanosensitive ion channel (MscS)
move apart upon the channel opening.";
"The closed structure of the MscS mechanosensitive channel. Cross-
linking of single cysteine mutants.";
"The conserved carboxy-terminus of the MscS mechanosensitive channel
is not essential but increases stability and activity.";
"Protein complexes of the Escherichia coli cell envelope.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Pivotal role of the glycine-rich TM3 helix in gating the MscS
mechanosensitive channel.";
"Crystal structure of Escherichia coli MscS, a voltage-modulated and
mechanosensitive channel.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mechanosensitive channel that participates in the
    regulation of osmotic pressure changes within the cell, opening in
    response to stretch forces in the membrane lipid bilayer, without
    the need for other proteins. Forms an ion channel of 1.0
    nanosiemens conductance with a slight preference for anions. The
    channel is sensitive to voltage; as the membrane is depolarized,
    less tension is required to open the channel and vice versa. The
    channel is characterized by short bursts of activity that last for
    a few seconds.
-!- FUNCTION: The channel pore is formed by TM3 and the loop between
    TM2 and TM3. After a sharp turn at Gly-113, an alpha-helix
    (residues 114-127) is oriented nearly parallel to the plane of the
    putative lipid bilayer. On the intracellular side of the channel,
    the permeation pathway of mscS does not connect directly to the
    cytoplasm but instead opens to a large chamber that is connected
    to the cytoplasm. This chamber resembles a molecular filter that
    could serve to prescreen large molecules before they are allowed
    passage to the transmembrane pore. The TM1 and TM2 helices appear
    to be likely candidates for mediating the tension and voltage
    sensitivities of mscS. Gating requires large rearrangements of at
    least the C-terminus.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homoheptamer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the mscS (TC 1.A.23) family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Transmembrane; Transport.
THTHREE
