AC   P11349;
Respiratory nitrate reductase 1 beta chain (EC 1.7.99.4) (Nitrate
reductase A subunit beta) (Quinol-nitrate oxidoreductase subunit
beta).
"Nitrate reductase of Escherichia coli: completion of the nucleotide
sequence of the nar operon and reassessment of the role of the alpha
and beta subunits in iron binding and electron transfer.";
"A 718-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 12.7-28.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"narI region of the Escherichia coli nitrate reductase (nar) operon
contains two genes.";
"Roles of the narJ and narI gene products in the expression of nitrate
reductase in Escherichia coli.";
"EPR and redox characterization of iron-sulfur centers in nitrate
reductases A and Z from Escherichia coli. Evidence for a high-
potential and a low-potential class and their relevance in the
electron-transfer mechanism.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of conserved cysteine residues within the
beta subunit of Escherichia coli nitrate reductase. Physiological,
biochemical, and EPR characterization of the mutated enzymes.";
"Removal of the high-potential [4Fe-4S] center of the beta-subunit
from Escherichia coli nitrate reductase. Physiological, biochemical,
and EPR characterization of site-directed mutated enzymes.";
"Complete coordination of the four Fe-S centers of the beta subunit
from Escherichia coli nitrate reductase. Physiological, biochemical,
and EPR characterization of site-directed mutants lacking the highest
or lowest potential [4Fe-4S] clusters.";
"The molybdenum cofactor of Escherichia coli nitrate reductase A
(NarGHI). Effect of a mobAB mutation and interactions with [Fe-S]
clusters.";
"Insights into the respiratory electron transfer pathway from the
structure of nitrate reductase A.";
"Architecture of NarGH reveals a structural classification of Mo-
bisMGD enzymes.";
-!- FUNCTION: The nitrate reductase enzyme complex allows E.coli to
    use nitrate as an electron acceptor during anaerobic growth. The
    beta chain is an electron transfer unit containing four cysteine
    clusters involved in the formation of iron-sulfur centers.
    Electrons are transferred from the gamma chain to the molybdenum
    cofactor of the alpha subunit.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Nitrite + acceptor = nitrate + reduced
    acceptor.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 3 4Fe-4S clusters per subunit.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 3Fe-4S cluster per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: Dimer of heterotrimers each composed of an alpha, a beta
    and a gamma chain. Alpha and beta are catalytic chains; gamma
    chains are involved in binding the enzyme complex to the
    cytoplasmic membrane.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P19319:narZ; NbExp=2; IntAct=EBI-555067, EBI-547262;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein.
-!- INDUCTION: By nitrate.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 4 4Fe-4S type ferredoxin domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Worthington enzyme manual;
    URL="http://www.worthington-biochem.com/NAR/".
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; 3Fe-4S; 4Fe-4S; Complete proteome;
Direct protein sequencing; Electron transport; Iron; Iron-sulfur;
Membrane; Metal-binding; Nitrate assimilation; Oxidoreductase;
Transport.
TMZERO
