AC   P09152; P78294;
Respiratory nitrate reductase 1 alpha chain (EC 1.7.99.4) (Nitrate
reductase A subunit alpha) (Quinol-nitrate oxidoreductase alpha
subunit).
"Nitrate reductase of Escherichia coli: completion of the nucleotide
sequence of the nar operon and reassessment of the role of the alpha
and beta subunits in iron binding and electron transfer.";
"Nitrate reductases of Escherichia coli: sequence of the second
nitrate reductase and comparison with that encoded by the narGHJI
operon.";
"A 718-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 12.7-28.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Respiratory nitrate reductase of Escherichia coli. Sequence
identification of the large subunit gene.";
"Delineation of two distinct regulatory domains in the 5' region of
the nar operon of Escherichia coli.";
"The narK gene product participates in nitrate transport induced in
Escherichia coli nitrate-respiring cells.";
"Promoter region of the nar operon of Escherichia coli: nucleotide
sequence and transcription initiation signals.";
"Roles of the narJ and narI gene products in the expression of nitrate
reductase in Escherichia coli.";
"Molybdenum cofactor properties and [Fe-S] cluster coordination in
Escherichia coli nitrate reductase A: investigation by site-directed
mutagenesis of the conserved his-50 residue in the NarG subunit.";
"Insights into the respiratory electron transfer pathway from the
structure of nitrate reductase A.";
"Architecture of NarGH reveals a structural classification of Mo-
bisMGD enzymes.";
-!- FUNCTION: The nitrate reductase enzyme complex allows E.coli to
    use nitrate as an electron acceptor during anaerobic growth. The
    alpha chain is the actual site of nitrate reduction.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Nitrite + acceptor = nitrate + reduced
    acceptor.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 4Fe-4S cluster per subunit.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 molybdenum ion per subunit.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide (MGD) groups
    per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: Dimer of heterotrimers each composed of an alpha, a beta
    and a gamma chain. Alpha and beta are catalytic chains; gamma
    chains are involved in binding the enzyme complex to the
    cytoplasmic membrane.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P0AF26:narJ; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-547248, EBI-555043;
    P0A7V8:rpsD; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-547248, EBI-543939;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein.
-!- INDUCTION: By nitrate.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the prokaryotic molybdopterin-containing
    oxidoreductase family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Worthington enzyme manual;
    URL="http://www.worthington-biochem.com/NAR/".
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; 4Fe-4S; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Electron transport; Iron; Iron-sulfur; Membrane; Metal-binding;
Molybdenum; Nitrate assimilation; Oxidoreductase; Transport.
TMZERO
