AC   O15118; Q9P130;
Niemann-Pick C1 protein precursor.
"Niemann-Pick C1 disease gene: homology to mediators of cholesterol
homeostasis.";
"The genomic organization and polymorphism analysis of the human
Niemann-Pick C1 gene.";
"NPC1: complete genomic sequence, mutation analysis, and
characterization of haplotypes.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Niemann-Pick C1 protein: obligatory roles for N-terminal domains and
lysosomal targeting in cholesterol mobilization.";
"The Nova Scotia (type D) form of Niemann-Pick disease is caused by a
G3097-->T transversion in NPC1.";
"Mutations in NPC1 highlight a conserved NPC1-specific cysteine-rich
domain.";
"Niemann-Pick C1 disease: the I1061T substitution is a frequent mutant
allele in patients of Western European descent and correlates with a
classic juvenile phenotype.";
"NPC1 gene mutations in Japanese patients with Niemann-Pick disease
type C.";
"Niemann-Pick C variant detection by altered sphingolipid trafficking
and correlation with mutations within a specific domain of NPC1.";
"Niemann-Pick C1 disease: correlations between NPC1 mutations, levels
of NPC1 protein, and phenotypes emphasize the functional significance
of the putative sterol-sensing domain and of the cysteine-rich luminal
loop.";
"Niemann-Pick type C disease: NPC1 mutations associated with severe
and mild cellular cholesterol trafficking alterations.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in the intracellular trafficking of
    cholesterol. May play a role in vesicular trafficking in glia, a
    process that may be crucial for maintaining the structural and
    functional integrity of nerve terminals.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endosome; late endosome; late endosomal
    membrane; single-pass membrane protein. Lysosome; lysosomal
    membrane; single-pass membrane protein.
-!- DOMAIN: A cysteine-rich N-terminal domain and a C-terminal domain
    containing a di-leucine motif necessary for lysosomal targeting
    are critical for mobilization of cholesterol from lysosomes.
-!- PTM: Glycosylated.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in NPC1 are the cause of Niemann-Pick disease
    type C1 (NPC1) [MIM:257220]. NPC1 is an autosomal recessive lipid
    storage disorder, which affects particularly the brain, liver and
    spleen, and which is characterized by lysosomal accumulation of
    low density lipoprotein derived cholesterol. Clinical features
    include variable hepatosplenomegaly and severe progressive
    neurological dysfunction such as ataxia, dystonia and dementia.
    The age of onset can vary from infancy to late adulthood.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in NPC1 are the cause of Niemann-Pick disease
    type D (NPD) [MIM:257220]; also known as Niemann-Pick disease
    without sphingomyelinase deficiency, or Nova Scotian type. Because
    of evidence from biochemical changes, lack of complementation, and
    linkage mapping to the same chromosome site, NPD and NPC1 are
    considered to be allelic disorders.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the patched family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 SSD (sterol-sensing) domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=NPC1".
 GO:0005783; C:endoplasmic reticulum; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005764; C:lysosome; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005635; C:nuclear envelope; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0048471; C:perinuclear region; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005478; F:intracellular transporter activity; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015248; F:sterol transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0004888; F:transmembrane receptor activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008206; P:bile acid metabolism; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0042632; P:cholesterol homeostasis; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007041; P:lysosomal transport; ISS:UniProtKB.
Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Lysosome; Membrane; Polymorphism;
Signal; Transmembrane.
TMELEVEN
