AC   Q9UHC9; Q6R3Q4; Q9UHC8;
Niemann-Pick C1-like protein 1 precursor.
"Evidence for a Niemann-Pick C (NPC) gene family: identification and
characterization of NPC1L1.";
"Niemann-Pick C1 like 1 protein is critical for intestinal cholesterol
absorption.";
"Inactivation of NPC1L1 causes multiple lipid transport defects and
protects against diet-induced hypercholesterolemia.";
"Reduced cholesterol absorption upon PPARdelta activation coincides
with decreased intestinal expression of NPC1L1.";
"The target of ezetimibe is Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (NPC1L1).";
"Compound heterozygosity for two non-synonymous polymorphisms in
NPC1L1 in a non-responder to ezetimibe.";
-!- FUNCTION: Play a major role in cholesterol homeostasis. Is
    critical for the uptake of cholesterol across the plasma membrane
    of the intestinal enterocyte. Is the direct molecular target of
    ezetimibe, a drug that inhibits cholesterol absorbtion. Lack of
    activity leads to multiple lipid transport defects. The protein
    may have a function in the transport of multiple lipids and their
    homeostasis, and may play a critical role in regulating lipid
    metabolism.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; multi-
    pass membrane protein. Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (By similarity). Cytoplasmic vesicle; cytoplasmic vesicle
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein. Note=Subfractionation of
    brush border membranes from proximal enterocytes suggests
    considerable association with the apical membrane fraction. Exists
    as a predominantly cell surface membrane expressed protein (By
    similarity). According to Ref.3, localizes in a subcellular
    vesicular compartment rich in RAB5.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q9UHC9-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=NPC1L1DELTAE15;
      IsoId=Q9UHC9-2; Sequence=VSP_015314;
    Name=3; Synonyms=NPCL1T;
      IsoId=Q9UHC9-3; Sequence=VSP_015312, VSP_015313;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed. Expressed in liver. Also
    expressed in small intestine, pancreas, kidney, lung, pancreas,
    spleen, heart, gall bladder, brain, testis, stomach and muscle.
-!- INDUCTION: Expression is decreased in Caco-2 cells upon PPARD
    activation.
-!- PTM: Highly glycosylated (By similarity).
-!- POLYMORPHISM: Variations in NPC1L1 gene could be associated with
    non-response to ezetimibe treatment.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the patched family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 SSD (sterol-sensing) domain.
 GO:0015918; P:sterol transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Cholesterol metabolism; Glycoprotein;
Lipid metabolism; Membrane; Polymorphism; Signal; Steroid metabolism;
Transmembrane.
TMTHIRTEEN
