AC   Q56222; Q5SM54;
NADH-quinone oxidoreductase subunit 1 (EC 1.6.99.5) (NADH
dehydrogenase I chain 1) (NDH-1 subunit 1).
"The proton-translocating NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (NDH-1) of
thermophilic bacterium Thermus thermophilus HB-8. Complete DNA
sequence of the gene cluster and thermostable properties of the
expressed NQO2 subunit.";
"Complete genome sequence of Thermus thermophilus HB8.";
"Identification of a novel subunit of respiratory complex I from
Thermus thermophilus.";
"Structure of the hydrophilic domain of respiratory complex I from
Thermus thermophilus.";
-!- FUNCTION: NDH-1 shuttles electrons from NADH, via FMN and iron-
    sulfur (Fe-S) centers, to quinones in the respiratory chain. The
    immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme in this species is
    menaquinone. Couples the redox reaction to proton translocation
    (for every two electrons transferred, four hydrogen ions are
    translocated across the cytoplasmic membrane), and thus conserves
    the redox energy in a proton gradient required for the synthesis
    of ATP. The nqo1 subunit contains the NADH-binding site and the
    primary electron acceptor FMN.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: NADH + quinone = NAD(+) + quinol.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 FMN per subunit.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 4Fe-4S cluster per subunit. This 4Fe-4S cluster
    is referred to as N3.
-!- SUBUNIT: NDH-1 is composed of 15 different subunits, nqo1 to
    nqo15. The complex has a L-shaped structure, with the hydrophobic
    arm (subunits nqo7, nqo8 and nqo10 to nqo14) embedded in the
    membrane and the hydrophilic peripheral arm (subunits nqo1 to
    nqo6, nqo9 and nqo15) protruding into the bacterial cytoplasm. The
    hydrophilic domain contains all the redox centers.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein;
    cytoplasmic side.
-!- DOMAIN: The subunit can be separated roughly into four domains: an
    N-terminal domain (residues 7 to 72) ending with a glycine-rich
    loop, followed by a Rossman-fold domain (73 to 240), a ubiquitin-
    like domain (241 to 335) and a C-terminal four-helical bundle
    containing cluster N3 (336 to 438).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the complex I 51 kDa subunit family.
3D-structure; 4Fe-4S; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Flavoprotein; FMN; Iron; Iron-sulfur; Membrane; Metal-binding; NAD;
Oxidoreductase; Quinone.
TMZERO
