AC   Q56223; Q5SM53;
NADH-quinone oxidoreductase subunit 3 (EC 1.6.99.5) (NADH
dehydrogenase I chain 3) (NDH-1 subunit 3).
"The proton-translocating NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (NDH-1) of
thermophilic bacterium Thermus thermophilus HB-8. Complete DNA
sequence of the gene cluster and thermostable properties of the
expressed NQO2 subunit.";
"Complete genome sequence of Thermus thermophilus HB8.";
"Characterization of the iron-sulfur cluster coordinated by a cysteine
cluster motif (CXXCXXXCX27C) in the Nqo3 subunit in the proton-
translocating NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (NDH-1) of Thermus
thermophilus HB-8.";
"Identification of a novel subunit of respiratory complex I from
Thermus thermophilus.";
"Structure of the hydrophilic domain of respiratory complex I from
Thermus thermophilus.";
-!- FUNCTION: NDH-1 shuttles electrons from NADH, via FMN and iron-
    sulfur (Fe-S) centers, to quinones in the respiratory chain. The
    immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme in this species is
    menaquinone. Couples the redox reaction to proton translocation
    (for every two electrons transferred, four hydrogen ions are
    translocated across the cytoplasmic membrane), and thus conserves
    the redox energy in a proton gradient required for the synthesis
    of ATP.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: NADH + quinone = NAD(+) + quinol.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 2Fe-2S cluster per subunit. The 2Fe-2S cluster 1
    is referred to as N1b.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 3 4Fe-4S clusters per subunit. The 4Fe-4S clusters
    2, 3, and 4 are referred to as N5, N4, and N7, respectively. The
    4Fe-4S cluster 4 is too far away from the main redox chain to
    participate in electron transfer but probably confers structural
    stability.
-!- SUBUNIT: NDH-1 is composed of 15 different subunits, nqo1 to
    nqo15. The complex has a L-shaped structure, with the hydrophobic
    arm (subunits nqo7, nqo8 and nqo10 to nqo14) embedded in the
    membrane and the hydrophilic peripheral arm (subunits nqo1 to
    nqo6, nqo9 and nqo15) protruding into the bacterial cytoplasm. The
    hydrophilic domain contains all the redox centers.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein;
    cytoplasmic side.
-!- DOMAIN: The subunit comprises two main parts, an N-terminal
    [FeFe]-hydrogenase-like domain (residues 1 to 240) that
    coordinates clusters 1, 2 and 3, and a domain similar to
    molybdopterin-containing enzymes (residues 241 to 767) whose first
    subdomain coordinates cluster 4.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the complex I 75 kDa subunit family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 2Fe-2S ferredoxin-type domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 4Fe-4S type ferredoxin domain.
2Fe-2S; 3D-structure; 4Fe-4S; Complete proteome;
Direct protein sequencing; Iron; Iron-sulfur; Membrane; Metal-binding;
NAD; Oxidoreductase; Quinone.
TMZERO
