AC   Q56582; Q56566; Q56588;
Na(+)-translocating NADH-quinone reductase subunit C (EC 1.6.5.-)
(Na(+)-translocating NADH-quinone reductase subunit gamma) (Na(+)-
translocating NQR subunit C) (Na(+)-NQR subunit C) (NQR complex
subunit C) (NQR-1 subunit C).
"Cloning and sequencing of four structural genes for the Na(+)-
translocating NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase of Vibrio
alginolyticus.";
"Sequencing and the alignment of structural genes in the nqr operon
encoding the Na(+)-translocating NADH-quinone reductase from Vibrio
alginolyticus.";
"Cloning of the Na(+)-translocating NADH-quinone reductase gene from
the marine bacterium Vibrio alginolyticus and the expression of the
beta-subunit in Escherichia coli.";
"Identification of six subunits constituting Na+-translocating NADH-
quinone reductase from the marine Vibrio alginolyticus.";
"Covalently bound flavin in the NqrB and NqrC subunits of Na(+)-
translocating NADH-quinone reductase from Vibrio alginolyticus.";
"Inhibitor studies of a new antibiotic, korormicin, 2-n-heptyl-4-
hydroxyquinoline N-oxide and Ag+ toward the Na+-translocating NADH-
quinone reductase from the marine Vibrio alginolyticus.";
"FMN is covalently attached to a threonine residue in the NqrB and
NqrC subunits of Na(+)-translocating NADH-quinone reductase from
Vibrio alginolyticus.";
"Recent progress in the Na(+)-translocating NADH-quinone reductase
from the marine Vibrio alginolyticus.";
"Na(+) translocation by bacterial NADH:quinone oxidoreductases: an
extension to the complex-I family of primary redox pumps.";
-!- FUNCTION: NQR complex catalyzes the reduction of ubiquinone-1 to
    ubiquinol by two successive reactions, coupled with the transport
    of Na(+) ions from the cytoplasm to the periplasm. NqrA to nqrE
    are probably involved in the second step, the conversion of
    ubisemiquinone to ubiquinol.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: NADH + ubiquinone + Na(+)(In) = NAD(+) +
    ubiquinol + Na(+)(Out).
-!- COFACTOR: FMN.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: This reaction is tightly coupled to the Na(+)
    pumping activity and specifically requires Na(+) for activity.
    Inhibited by korormicin and 2-N-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide
    (HQNO).
-!- SUBUNIT: Composed of six subunits; nqrA, nqrB, nqrC, nqrD, nqrE
    and nqrF.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane (Potential).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the nqrC family.
Direct protein sequencing; Flavoprotein; FMN; Inner membrane;
Ion transport; Membrane; NAD; Oxidoreductase; Sodium;
Sodium transport; Transmembrane; Transport; Ubiquinone.
TMONE
