AC   Q56219; Q5SM57;
NADH-quinone oxidoreductase subunit 5 (EC 1.6.99.5) (NADH
dehydrogenase I chain 5) (NDH-1 subunit 5).
"The proton-translocating NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (NDH-1) of
thermophilic bacterium Thermus thermophilus HB-8. Complete DNA
sequence of the gene cluster and thermostable properties of the
expressed NQO2 subunit.";
"Complete genome sequence of Thermus thermophilus HB8.";
"Identification of a novel subunit of respiratory complex I from
Thermus thermophilus.";
"Structure of the hydrophilic domain of respiratory complex I from
Thermus thermophilus.";
-!- FUNCTION: NDH-1 shuttles electrons from NADH, via FMN and iron-
    sulfur (Fe-S) centers, to quinones in the respiratory chain. The
    immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme in this species is
    menaquinone. Couples the redox reaction to proton translocation
    (for every two electrons transferred, four hydrogen ions are
    translocated across the cytoplasmic membrane), and thus conserves
    the redox energy in a proton gradient required for the synthesis
    of ATP. The nqo5 subunit may be involved in the stabilization of
    the complex.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: NADH + quinone = NAD(+) + quinol.
-!- SUBUNIT: NDH-1 is composed of 15 different subunits, nqo1 to
    nqo15. The complex has a L-shaped structure, with the hydrophobic
    arm (subunits nqo7, nqo8 and nqo10 to nqo14) embedded in the
    membrane and the hydrophilic peripheral arm (subunits nqo1 to
    nqo6, nqo9 and nqo15) protruding into the bacterial cytoplasm. The
    hydrophilic domain contains all the redox centers. The N-terminal
    domain of subunit nqo5 (residues 1 to 153) wraps around nqo4 on
    one side, and the subunit interacts also with nqo9 via a two-
    stranded beta sheet (residues 154 to 171) and with nqo3 via an
    extended C-terminal loop (residues 172 to 196).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; peripheral membrane protein;
    cytoplasmic side.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the complex I 30 kDa subunit family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Membrane;
NAD; Oxidoreductase; Quinone.
TMZERO
