AC   P33599; P33600; P78089; P78309;
NADH-quinone oxidoreductase chain C/D (EC 1.6.99.5) (NADH
dehydrogenase I, chain C/D) (NDH-1, chain C/D) (NUO3/NUO4).
"The gene locus of the proton-translocating NADH: ubiquinone
oxidoreductase in Escherichia coli. Organization of the 14 genes and
relationship between the derived proteins and subunits of
mitochondrial complex I.";
"Construction of a contiguous 874-kb sequence of the Escherichia coli-
K12 genome corresponding to 50.0-68.8 min on the linkage map and
analysis of its sequence features.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Isolation and characterization of the proton-translocating NADH:
ubiquinone oxidoreductase from Escherichia coli.";
"Mutations in NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase of Escherichia coli
affect growth on mixed amino acids.";
"Protein complexes of the Escherichia coli cell envelope.";
-!- FUNCTION: NDH-1 shuttles electrons from NADH, via FMN and iron-
    sulfur (Fe-S) centers, to quinones in the respiratory chain. The
    immediate electron acceptor for the enzyme in this species is
    believed to be ubiquinone. Couples the redox reaction to proton
    translocation (for every two electrons transferred, four hydrogen
    ions are translocated across the cytoplasmic membrane), and thus
    conserves the redox energy in a proton gradient.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: NADH + quinone = NAD(+) + quinol.
-!- SUBUNIT: Composed of 13 different subunits. Subunits nuoCD, E, F,
    and G constitute the peripheral sector of the complex.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm. Cell inner membrane; peripheral
    membrane protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: In the N-terminal section; belongs to the complex I 30
    kDa subunit family.
-!- SIMILARITY: In the C-terminal section; belongs to the complex I 49
    kDa subunit family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 sequence differs from that shown due to a
    frameshift in position 175.
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Multifunctional enzyme;
NAD; Oxidoreductase; Quinone; Ubiquinone.
TMZERO
