AC   Q51487; Q51444; Q9ZNM1;
Outer membrane protein oprM precursor.
"Multiple antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa: evidence
for involvement of an efflux operon.";
"Localization of the outer membrane subunit OprM of resistance-
nodulation-cell division family multicomponent efflux pump in
Pseudomonas aeruginosa.";
"Complete genome sequence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, an
opportunistic pathogen.";
"Cloning and sequence analysis of an EnvCD homologue in Pseudomonas
aeruginosa: regulation by iron and possible involvement in the
secretion of the siderophore pyoverdine.";
"Global analysis of the membrane subproteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa
using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.";
"Role of mexA-mexB-oprM in antibiotic efflux in Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.";
"Inner membrane efflux components are responsible for beta-lactam
specificity of multidrug efflux pumps in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.";
"Role of the multidrug efflux systems of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in
organic solvent tolerance.";
"Contribution of the MexX-MexY-oprM efflux system to intrinsic
resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.";
"Mutational analysis of the OprM outer membrane component of the MexA-
MexB-OprM multidrug efflux system of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.";
"Crystal structure of the drug discharge outer membrane protein, OprM,
of Pseudomonas aeruginosa: dual modes of membrane anchoring and
occluded cavity end.";
"Trimeric structure of OprN and OprM efflux proteins from Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, by 2D electron crystallography.";
-!- FUNCTION: The outer membrane component of the mexAB-oprM efflux
    system that confers multidrug resistance. Also functions as the
    major efflux pump for n-hexane and p-xylene efflux. Over-
    expression of the pump increases antibiotic and solvent efflux
    capacities. Can replace the oprJ outer membrane component of the
    mexCD-oprJ pump; the antibiotics exported are those exported by
    the intact mexCD pump, showing that efflux substrate specificity
    is not conferred by this component. Serves as the outer membrane
    component for the mexXY efflux system. Implicated in the secretion
    of the siderophore pyoverdine. OprM is probably involved in the
    efflux of the siderophore across the outer membrane.
-!- FUNCTION: The ability to export antibiotics and solvents is
    dramatically decreased in the presence of the proton conductor
    carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), showing that an
    energized inner membrane is required for efflux. It is thought
    that the mexB subunit is a proton antiporter.
-!- SUBUNIT: Component of the mexAB-oprM multidrug efflux complex
    composed of an unknown number of mexA subunits, mexB and an oprM
    homotrimer. The oprM homotrimer assembles to form a 135 Angstroms-
    long pore. It consists of a beta-barrel, which is probably
    inserted in the outer membrane, and an alpha-barrel formed by
    alpha-helices which probably spans the periplasm. In the ground
    state the periplasmic end is closed, while the outer membrane end
    opening is 6-8 Angstroms in diameter. The oprM trimer is thought
    to contact the inner membrane mexB transporter. The mexA subunits
    are thought to form a barrel which allows substrates to pass
    directly from the cytoplasm to the external mileu. How the mexA
    subunits interact with oprM and mexB, and how the oprM channel is
    opened is unknown.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell outer membrane; lipid-anchor.
    Note=Attached to the outer membrane by a lipid anchor and via the
    transmembrane beta-barrel. The membrane anchor is not necessary
    for antibiotic efflux. In one report (PubMed:10889211) the Cys-18-
    Gly mutant is reported to be periplasmically located, in another
    (PubMed:11114896) the same protein is reported to be located in
    the outer membrane.
-!- INDUCTION: By growth under severe iron limitation.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the outer membrane factor (OMF) (TC 1.B.17)
    family.
-!- CAUTION: The conflict shown in Ref.1 is due to cloning in a
    phagemid vector.
3D-structure; Antibiotic resistance; Complete proteome;
Direct protein sequencing; Lipoprotein; Membrane; Outer membrane;
Palmitate; Signal; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMZERO
