AC   P25714; Q2M818;
Inner membrane protein oxaA.
"DNA sequence and analysis of 136 kilobases of the Escherichia coli
genome: organizational symmetry around the origin of replication.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Physical mapping and nucleotide sequence of the rnpA gene that
encodes the protein component of ribonuclease P in Escherichia coli.";
"Membrane topology of the 60-kDa Oxa1p homologue from Escherichia
coli.";
"YidC, the Escherichia coli homologue of mitochondrial Oxa1p, is a
component of the Sec translocase.";
"YidC mediates membrane protein insertion in bacteria.";
"SecDFyajC forms a heterotetrameric complex with YidC.";
"Targeting, insertion, and localization of Escherichia coli YidC.";
"A conserved function of YidC in the biogenesis of respiratory chain
complexes.";
"Defining the regions of Escherichia coli YidC that contribute to
activity.";
"YidC is strictly required for membrane insertion of subunits a and c
of the F(1)F(0)ATP synthase and SecE of the SecYEG translocase.";
"Protein complexes of the Escherichia coli cell envelope.";
-!- FUNCTION: Inner membrane protein required for the insertion of
    integral membrane proteins into the membrane. Probably plays an
    essential role in the integration of proteins of the respiratory
    chain complexes. Involved in integration of membrane proteins that
    insert dependently and independently of the Sec translocase
    complex. Essential for the integration of subunits a and c of the
    F(1)F(0)ATP synthase, and secE proteins.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with secD and secF. Component of the SecDFyajC
    complex, a heterotetrameric translocase complex. Specifically
    interacts with transmembrane segments of nascent integral membrane
    proteins during membrane integration. Found in 3 different
    complexes in inner membrane preparations (Ref.13).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein. Note=Predominantly localized at the poles of cells.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the OXA1/oxaA family. Type 1 subfamily.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Transmembrane.
TMSIX
