AC   P13423; Q937W2; Q937W3; Q9F5R7; Q9KH69; Q9RQU2;
Protective antigen precursor (PA) (PA-83) (PA83) (Anthrax toxins
translocating protein) [Contains: Protective antigen PA-20 (PA20);
Protective antigen PA-63 (PA63)].
"Sequence and analysis of the DNA encoding protective antigen of
Bacillus anthracis.";
"Genetic diversity in the protective antigen gene of Bacillus
anthracis.";
"Attenuated nontoxinogenic and nonencapsulated recombinant Bacillus
anthracis spore vaccines protect against anthrax.";
"Sequence and organization of pXO1, the large Bacillus anthracis
plasmid harboring the anthrax toxin genes.";
"Comparative genome sequencing for discovery of novel polymorphisms in
Bacillus anthracis.";
"Bacillus anthracis comparative genomics.";
"Sequence analysis of the genes encoding for the major virulence
factors of Bacillus anthracis vaccine strain 'Carbosap'.";
"Preparation of a positive control DNA for molecular diagnosis of
Bacillus anthracis.";
"The carboxyl-terminal end of protective antigen is required for
receptor binding and anthrax toxin activity.";
"Anthrax protective antigen forms oligomers during intoxication of
mammalian cells.";
"Proteolytic activation of receptor-bound anthrax protective antigen
on macrophages promotes its internalization.";
"Regulation of the Bacillus anthracis protective antigen gene: CO2 and
a trans-acting element activate transcription from one of two
promoters.";
"Production of Bacillus anthracis protective antigen is dependent on
the extracellular chaperone, PrsA.";
"Binding of anthrax toxin to its receptor is similar to alpha
integrin-ligand interactions.";
"The chymotrypsin-sensitive site, FFD315, in anthrax toxin protective
antigen is required for translocation of lethal factor.";
"Identification of a receptor-binding region within domain 4 of the
protective antigen component of anthrax toxin.";
"Trp 346 and Leu 352 residues in protective antigen are required for
the expression of anthrax lethal toxin activity.";
"Hydrophobic residues Phe552, Phe554, Ile562, Leu566, and Ile574 are
required for oligomerization of anthrax protective antigen.";
"Role of residues constituting the 2beta1 strand of domain II in the
biological activity of anthrax protective antigen.";
"Involvement of domain 3 in oligomerization by the protective antigen
moiety of anthrax toxin.";
"Point mutations in anthrax protective antigen that block
translocation.";
"Identification of amino acid residues of anthrax protective antigen
involved in binding with lethal factor.";
"Mapping dominant-negative mutations of anthrax protective antigen by
scanning mutagenesis.";
"Alanine-scanning mutations in domain 4 of anthrax toxin protective
antigen reveal residues important for binding to the cellular receptor
and to a neutralizing monoclonal antibody.";
"Crystal structure of the anthrax toxin protective antigen.";
"Crystal structure of a complex between anthrax toxin and its host
cell receptor.";
"Structure of heptameric protective antigen bound to an anthrax toxin
receptor: a role for receptor in pH-dependent pore formation.";
"Anthrax.";
-!- FUNCTION: One of the three proteins composing the anthrax toxin,
    the agent which infects many mammalian species and that may cause
    death. PA binds to a receptor (ATR) in sensitive eukaryotic cells,
    thereby facilitating the translocation of the enzymatic toxin
    components, edema factor and lethal factor, across the target cell
    membrane. PA associated with LF causes death when injected, PA
    associated with EF produces edema. PA induces immunity to
    infection with anthrax.
-!- SUBUNIT: Anthrax toxins are composed of three distinct proteins, a
    protective antigen (PA), a lethal factor (LF) and an edema factor
    (EF). None of these is toxic by itself. PA+LF forms the lethal
    toxin (LeTx); PA+EF forms the edema toxin (EdTx). PA-63 forms
    heptamers and this oligomerization is required for LF or EF
    binding. This complex is endocytosed by the host. Once activated,
    at low pH, the heptamer undergoes conformational changes and
    converts from prepore to pore inserted in the membrane, forming
    cation-selective channels and triggering the release of LF and EF
    in the host cytoplasm.
-!- INTERACTION:
    Q9H6X2-2:ANTXR1 (xeno); NbExp=2; IntAct=EBI-456868, EBI-905659;
    P58335:ANTXR2 (xeno); NbExp=4; IntAct=EBI-456868, EBI-456840;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein; extracellular space.
    Note=Secreted through the Sec-dependent secretion pathway.
    Therefore, PA is translocated across the membrane in an unfolded
    state and then it is folded into its native configuration on the
    trans side of the membrane, prior to its release to the
    environment. PA requires the extracellular chaperone prsA for
    efficient folding.
-!- DOMAIN: The molecule is folded into four functional domains. Each
    domain is required for a particular step in the toxicity process.
    Domain 1 contains two calcium ions and the proteolytic activation
    site. Cleavage of the PA monomer releases the subdomain 1a, which
    is the N-terminal fragment of 20-kDa (PA20). The subdomain 1b is
    part of the remaining 63-kDa fragment (PA63) and contains the
    binding sites for LP and EF. Domain 2 is a beta-barrel core
    containing a large flexible loop that has been implicated in
    membrane insertion and pore formation. There is a chymotrypsin
    cleavage site in this loop that is required for toxicity. Domain 3
    has a hydrophobic patch thought to be involved in protein-protein
    interactions. Domain 4 appears to be a separate domain and shows
    limited contact with the other three domains: it would swing out
    of the way during membrane insertion. It is required for binding
    to the receptor; the small loop is involved in receptor
    recognition.
-!- PTM: Proteolytic activation by furin or a furin-like protease
    cleaves the protein in two parts, PA-20 and PA-63; the latter is
    the mature protein. The cleavage occurs at the cell surface and
    probably in the serum of infected animals as well; both native and
    cleaved PA are able to bind to the cell receptor. The release of
    PA20 from the remaining receptor-bound PA63 exposes the binding
    site for EF and LF, and promotes oligomerization and
    internalization of the protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: In Ref.12 multiple mutagenesis experiments were
    performed that showed that the residues present in the small loop
    of domain 4, and not the ones in the large loop, are involved in
    receptor recognition. In Ref.19 high-throughput scanning
    mutagenesis experiments were performed in which all residues of
    PA-63 were mutated into Cys. Dominantly negative (DN) mutants were
    all clustered in domain 2. DN mutants prevent the conformational
    transition of PA-63 from the prepore to the pore state.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the bacterial binary toxin family.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Calcium; Complete proteome; Metal-binding; Plasmid;
Signal; Toxin; Virulence.
TMZERO
