AC   P16615; P16614;
Sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase 2 (EC 3.6.3.8)
(Calcium pump 2) (SERCA2) (SR Ca(2+)-ATPase 2) (Calcium-transporting
ATPase sarcoplasmic reticulum type, slow twitch skeletal muscle
isoform) (Endoplasmic reticulum class 1/2 Ca(2+) ATPase).
"Molecular cloning of cDNAs from human kidney coding for two
alternatively spliced products of the cardiac Ca2+-ATPase gene.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Large-scale characterization of HeLa cell nuclear phosphoproteins.";
"Spectrum of novel ATP2A2 mutations in patients with Darier's
disease.";
"ATP2A2 mutations in Darier's disease: variant cutaneous phenotypes
are associated with missense mutations, but neuropsychiatric features
are independent of mutation class.";
"ATP2A2 mutations in Darier's disease and their relationship to
neuropsychiatric phenotypes.";
"Mutations in ATP2A2, encoding a Ca2+ pump, cause Darier disease.";
"Acrokeratosis verruciformis of Hopf is caused by mutation in ATP2A2:
evidence that it is allelic to Darier's disease.";
-!- FUNCTION: This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis
    of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol
    to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen. Isoform SERCA2A is involved
    in the regulation of the contraction/relaxation cycle.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O + Ca(2+)(Cis) = ADP + phosphate +
    Ca(2+)(Trans).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Reversibly inhibited by phospholamban (PLN) at
    low calcium concentrations. Dephosphorylated PLN decreases the
    apparent affinity of the ATPase for calcium. This inhibition is
    regulated by the phosphorylation of PLN (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Associated with phospholamban (PLN) (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein. Sarcoplasmic reticulum;
    sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
      Comment=SERCA2 transcripts differ only in their 3'UTR region and
      are expressed in a tissue-specific manner;
    Name=SERCA2B; Synonyms=ATP2A2B, Class 2-4, HK1;
      IsoId=P16615-1; Sequence=Displayed;
      Note=Ubiquitous housekeeping isoform;
    Name=SERCA2A; Synonyms=ATP2A2A, Class 1, HK2;
      IsoId=P16615-2; Sequence=VSP_000358;
      Note=Cardiac/slow twitch, muscle specific isoform. Has a lower
      affinity for calcium and a higher catalytic turnover rate;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Isoform SERCA2A is highly expressed in heart
    and slow twitch skeletal muscle. Isoform SERCA2B is widely
    expressed, in smooth muscle and nonmuscle tissues such as in adult
    skin epidermis.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ATP2A2 are a cause of acrokeratosis
    verruciformis (AKV) [MIM:101900]; also known as Hopf disease. AKV
    is a localized disorder of keratinization, which is inherited as
    an autosomal dominant trait. Its onset is early in life with
    multiple flat-topped, flesh-colored papules on the hands and feet,
    punctate keratoses on the palms and soles, with varying degrees of
    nail involvement. The histopathology shows a distinctive pattern
    of epidermal features with hyperkeratosis, hypergranulosis, and
    acanthosis together with papillomatosis. These changes are
    frequently associated with circumscribed elevations of the
    epidermis that are said to resemble church spires. There are no
    features of dyskeratosis or acantholysis, the typical findings in
    lesions of Darier disease.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ATP2A2 are the cause of Darier disease (DD)
    [MIM:124200]; also known as Darier-White disease (DAR). DD is an
    autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by loss
    of adhesion between epidermal cells (acantholysis) and abnormal
    keratinization. Patients with mild disease may have no more than a
    few scattered keratotic papules or subtle nail changes, whereas
    those with severe disease are handicapped by widespread malodorous
    keratotic plaques. In a few families, neuropsychiatric
    abnormalities such as mild mental retardation, schizophrenia,
    bipolar disorder and epilepsy have been reported. Stress, UV
    exposure, heat, sweat, friction, and oral contraception exacerbate
    disease symptoms. Prevalence has been estimated at 1 in 50000.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the cation transport ATPase (P-type)
    family. Type IIA subfamily.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ATP2A2".
 GO:0005789; C:endoplasmic reticulum membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005792; C:microsome; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0016529; C:sarcoplasmic reticulum; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005388; F:calcium-transporting ATPase activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0048155; F:S100 alpha binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007155; P:cell adhesion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008544; P:epidermis development; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; Calcium; Calcium transport;
Disease mutation; Endoplasmic reticulum; Epilepsy; Hydrolase;
Ion transport; Magnesium; Membrane; Metal-binding; Nucleotide-binding;
Phosphorylation; Sarcoplasmic reticulum; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
