AC   O00628;
Peroxisomal targeting signal 2 receptor (PTS2 receptor) (Peroxin-7).
"Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata is caused by deficiency of human
PEX7, a homologue of the yeast PTS2 receptor.";
"Human PEX7 encodes the peroxisomal PTS2 receptor and is responsible
for rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata.";
"PEX7 gene structure, alternative transcripts, and evidence for a
founder haplotype for the frequent RCDP allele, L292ter.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Identification of PEX7 as the second gene involved in Refsum
disease.";
-!- FUNCTION: Binds to the N-terminal PTS2-type peroxisomal targeting
    signal and plays an essential role in peroxisomal protein import.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with PEX5.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Peroxisome. Cytoplasm.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Ubiquitous. Highest expression in pancreas,
    skeletal muscle and heart.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in PEX7 are the cause of rhizomelic
    chondrodysplasia punctata type 1 (RCDP1) [MIM:215100]; also known
    as peroxisomal biogenesis disorder complementation group 11
    (CG11). RCDP1 is a developmental disorder, characterized by the
    presence of stippled foci of calcification in hyaline cartilage,
    coronal vertebral clefting, dwarfing, joint contractures,
    congenital cataract, ichthyosis, and severe mental retardation.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in PEX7 are a cause of Refsum disease (RD)
    [MIM:266500]. RD is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized
    clinically by a tetrad of abnormalities: retinitis pigmentosa,
    peripheral neuropathy, cerebellar ataxia, and elevated protein
    levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Patients exhibit
    accumulation of the branched-chain fatty acid, phytanic acid, in
    blood and tissues. Less constant features are nerve deafness,
    anosmia, skeletal abnormalities, ichthyosis, cataracts and cardiac
    impairment. Manifestations of the disease appear in the second or
    third decade of life.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 6 WD repeats.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=PEX7".
 GO:0005777; C:peroxisome; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005053; F:peroxisome targeting signal-2 binding; TAS:ProtInc.
Cataract; Disease mutation; Peroxisome; Polymorphism;
Protein transport; Repeat; Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata;
Transport; WD repeat.
TMZERO
