AC   Q38954; Q3EAZ6;
Inorganic phosphate transporter 2-1, chloroplast precursor (H(+)/Pi
cotransporter) (AtPht2;1).
"Sequence analysis of an 81 kb contig from Arabidopsis thaliana
chromosome III.";
"Pht2;1 encodes a low-affinity phosphate transporter from
Arabidopsis.";
"A chloroplast phosphate transporter, PHT2;1, influences allocation of
phosphate within the plant and phosphate-starvation responses.";
"Structural analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana chromosome 3. I. Sequence
features of the regions of 4,504,864 bp covered by sixty P1 and TAC
clones.";
"Integral membrane proteins of the chloroplast envelope:
identification and subcellular localization of new transporters.";
"Proteomic study of the Arabidopsis thaliana chloroplastic envelope
membrane utilizing alternatives to traditional two-dimensional
electrophoresis.";
"Proteomics of the chloroplast envelope membranes from Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Expression analysis suggests novel roles for the plastidic phosphate
transporter Pht2;1 in auto- and heterotrophic tissues in potato and
Arabidopsis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Low affinity H(+)/Pi chloroplastic cotransporter.
    Involved in inorganic phosphate (orthophosphate, Pi) uptake in
    green parts of plants in Pi-sufficient conditions. Required for Pi
    retranslocation during Pi deprivation.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=0.4 mM for Pi (at pH 4 and 30 degrees Celsius);
      Note=Highly specific for Pi among other anions;
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 4;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Plastid; chloroplast; chloroplast inner
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein (Probable).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q38954-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q38954-2; Sequence=VSP_018146;
      Note=Derived from EST data. May be due to an intron retention.
      No experimental confirmation available;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Mostly expressed in young green tissues.
    Present in both auto- and heterotrophic tissues. Also expressed in
    root stele.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: During flower development, expressed in
    sepals, stamens and siliques. In seeds, confined to the connecting
    site of the funiculus. In seedlings, expressed in cotyledons and
    hypocotyls. Restricted progressively to vascular tissues as plants
    become older.
-!- INDUCTION: Induction by light is inhibited by abscisic acid (ABA)
    and cycloheximide.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the pho-4 transporter (TC 2.A.20.2.4)
    family.
Alternative splicing; Chloroplast; Inner membrane; Membrane;
Phosphate transport; Plastid; Symport; Transit peptide; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWELVE
