AC   Q9C6B8; Q9ZSY5; Q9ZSY6;
Auxin efflux carrier component 1 (Protein PIN-FORMED) (AtPIN1).
"Regulation of polar auxin transport by AtPIN1 in Arabidopsis vascular
tissue.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 1 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Coordinated polar localization of auxin efflux carrier PIN1 by GNOM
ARF GEF.";
"Auxin transport inhibitors block PIN1 cycling and vesicle
trafficking.";
"Efflux-dependent auxin gradients establish the apical-basal axis of
Arabidopsis.";
"Local, efflux-dependent auxin gradients as a common module for plant
organ formation.";
-!- FUNCTION: Acts as a component of the auxin efflux carrier. Seems
    to be involved in the basipetal auxin transport. Mediates the
    formation of auxin gradient which is required to ensure correct
    organogenesis. Coordinated polar localization of PIN1 is directly
    regulated by the vesicle trafficking process. The ARF-GEF protein
    GNOM is required for the correct recycling of PIN1 between the
    plasma membrane and endosomal compartments.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Potential).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed at the basal side of elongated
    parenchymatous xylem cells.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed during embryogenesis. Already
    detected in the 8-cell stage at the inner cell boundaries. Later,
    polarity is gradually established at the basal side of provascular
    cells then in epidermis cells.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Loss-of-function mutants exhibit developed naked,
    pin-shaped inflorescences and abnormalities in the number, size,
    shape, and position of lateral organs.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the auxin efflux carrier (TC 2.A.69)
    family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 (AAD04377) sequence differs from that shown due to
    erroneous gene model prediction.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; IDA:TAIR.
Auxin signaling pathway; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTEN
