AC   P98161; Q15140; Q15141;
Polycystin-1 precursor (Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease
protein 1).
"Polycystic kidney disease: the complete structure of the PKD1 gene
and its protein.";
"The polycystic kidney disease 1 (PKD1) gene encodes a novel protein
with multiple cell recognition domains.";
"The polycystic kidney disease 1 gene encodes a 14 kb transcript and
lies within a duplicated region on chromosome 16.";
"The structure of a PKD domain from polycystin-1: implications for
polycystic kidney disease.";
"Polycystin channels and kidney disease.";
"Screening the 3' region of the polycystic kidney disease 1 (PKD1)
gene reveals six novel mutations.";
"Identification of mutations in the duplicated region of the
polycystic kidney disease 1 gene (PKD1) by a novel approach.";
"New amino acid polymorphism, Ala/Val4058, in exon 45 of the
polycystic kidney disease 1 gene: evolution of alleles.";
"An unusual pattern of mutation in the duplicated portion of PKD1 is
revealed by use of a novel strategy for mutation detection.";
"Three novel mutations of the PKD1 gene in Italian families with
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.";
"Novel and recurrent mutations in the PKD1 (polycystic kidney disease)
gene.";
"Loss of heterozygosity in polycystic kidney disease with a missense
mutation in the repeated region of PKD1.";
"Identification of mutations in the repeated part of the autosomal
dominant polycystic kidney disease type 1 gene, PKD1, by long-range
PCR.";
"Mutation detection of PKD1 identifies a novel mutation common to
three families with aneurysms and/or very-early-onset disease.";
"DGGE screening of PKD1 gene reveals novel mutations in a large cohort
of 146 unrelated patients.";
"Novel mutations in the 3 region of the polycystic kidney disease 1
(PKD1) gene.";
"Mutational analysis within the 3' region of the PKD1 gene.";
"Novel mutations in the duplicated region of PKD1 gene.";
"Novel mutations in the duplicated region of the polycystic kidney
disease 1 (PKD1) gene provides supporting evidence for gene
conversion.";
"Screening of the PKD1 duplicated region reveals multiple single
nucleotide polymorphisms and a de novo mutation in Hellenic polycystic
kidney disease families.";
"Novel splicing and missense mutations in autosomal dominant
polycystic kidney disease 1 (PKD1) gene: expression of mutated
genes.";
"Thirteen novel mutations of the replicated region of PKD1 in an Asian
population.";
"Novel mutations of the PKD1 gene in Korean patients with autosomal
dominant polycystic kidney disease.";
"Mutation analysis of the entire PKD1 gene: genetic and diagnostic
implications.";
"Novel PKD1 deletions and missense variants in a cohort of Hellenic
polycystic kidney disease families.";
"Mutation analysis of the entire replicated portion of PKD1 using
genomic DNA samples.";
"Mutational analysis within the 3' region of the PKD1 gene in Japanese
families.";
-!- FUNCTION: May be an ion-channel regulator. PKD1 and PKD2 may
    function through a common signaling pathway that is necessary for
    normal tubulogenesis. Involved in adhesive protein-protein and
    protein-carbohydrate interactions.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with PKD2.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Potential).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=P98161-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=P98161-2; Sequence=VSP_009677, VSP_009678;
    Name=3;
      IsoId=P98161-3; Sequence=VSP_009678;
-!- DOMAIN: The LDL-receptor class A domain is atypical; the potential
    calcium-binding site is missing.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in PKD1 are the cause of autosomal dominant
    polycystic kidney disease type I (ADPKD) [MIM:173900]. ADPKD is a
    common autosomal dominant genetic disease affecting about 1:400 to
    1:1'000 individuals. It is characterized by progressive formation
    and enlargement of cysts in both kidneys, typically leading to
    end-stage renal disease in adult life. Cysts also occurs in the
    liver and other organs.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the polycystin family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 C-type lectin domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 GPS domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 LDL-receptor class A domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 LRR (leucine-rich) repeats.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 16 PKD domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PLAT domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 REJ domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 WSC domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=PKD1".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007161; P:calcium-independent cell-matrix adhesion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007156; P:homophilic cell adhesion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0009653; P:morphogenesis; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Alternative splicing; Coiled coil; Disease mutation;
Glycoprotein; Lectin; Leucine-rich repeat; Membrane; Polymorphism;
Repeat; Signal; Transmembrane.
TMELEVEN
