AC   P03315;
Structural polyprotein (p130) [Contains: Capsid protein (EC 3.4.21.-)
(Coat protein) (C); p62 (E3/E2); E3 protein (Spike glycoprotein E3);
E2 envelope glycoprotein (Spike glycoprotein E2); 6K protein; E1
envelope glycoprotein (Spike glycoprotein E1)].
"The capsid protein of Semliki Forest virus has clusters of basic
amino acids and prolines in its amino-terminal region.";
"Nucleotide sequence of cDNA coding for Semliki Forest virus membrane
glycoproteins.";
"Carboxyl-terminal sequence analysis of the four structural proteins
of Semliki Forest virus.";
"An evolutionary tree relating eight alphaviruses, based on amino-
terminal sequences of their glycoproteins.";
"Chemical identification of cysteine as palmitoylation site in a
transmembrane protein (Semliki Forest virus E1).";
"Processing of the p62 envelope precursor protein of Semliki Forest
virus.";
"Mutagenesis of the putative fusion domain of the Semliki Forest virus
spike protein.";
"Internally located cleavable signal sequences direct the formation of
Semliki Forest virus membrane proteins from a polyprotein precursor.";
"Fate of the 6K membrane protein of Semliki Forest virus during virus
assembly.";
"Membrane fusion of Semliki Forest virus involves homotrimers of the
fusion protein.";
"The 6-kilodalton membrane protein of Semliki Forest virus is involved
in the budding process.";
"A single point mutation controls the cholesterol dependence of
Semliki Forest virus entry and exit.";
"Role of the C-terminal tryptophan residue for the structure-function
of the alphavirus capsid protein.";
"Glycoproteins form mixed disulphides with oxidoreductases during
folding in living cells.";
"Novel mutations that control the sphingolipid and cholesterol
dependence of the Semliki Forest virus fusion protein.";
"Furin processing and proteolytic activation of Semliki Forest
virus.";
"Structure of Semliki Forest virus core protein.";
"Cryo-electron microscopy reveals the functional organization of an
enveloped virus, Semliki Forest virus.";
"The Fusion glycoprotein shell of Semliki Forest virus: an icosahedral
assembly primed for fusogenic activation at endosomal pH.";
"Conformational change and protein-protein interactions of the fusion
protein of Semliki Forest virus.";
-!- FUNCTION: Capsid protein possesses a protease activity that
    results in its autocatalytic cleavage from the nascent structural
    protein. Following its self-cleavage, the capsid protein
    transiently associates with ribosomes, and within several minutes
    the protein binds to viral RNA and rapidly assembles into
    icosaedric core particles. The resulting nucleocapsid eventually
    associates with the cytoplasmic domain of E2 at the cell membrane,
    leading to budding and formation of mature virions. New virions
    attach to target cells, and after endocytosis their membrane fuses
    with the target cell membrane. This leads to the release of the
    nucleocapsid into the cytoplasm, followed by an uncoating event
    necessary for the genomic RNA to become accessible. The uncoating
    might be triggered by the interaction of capsid proteins with
    ribosomes. Binding of ribosomes would release the genomic RNA
    since the same region is genomic RNA-binding and ribosome-binding.
-!- FUNCTION: E3 protein's function is unknown.
-!- FUNCTION: E2 is responsible for viral attachment to target host
    cell, by binding to the cell receptor. Synthesized as a p62
    precursor which is processed by furin at the cell membrane just
    before virion budding, giving rise to E2-E1 heterodimer. The p62-
    E1 heterodimer is stable, whereas E2-E1 is unstable and dissociate
    at low pH. p62 is processed at the last step, presumably to avoid
    E1 fusion activation before its final export to cell surface. E2
    C-terminus contains a transitory transmembrane that would be
    disrupted by palmitoylation, resulting in reorientation of the C-
    terminal tail from lumenal to cytoplasmic side. This step is
    critical since E2 C-terminus is involved in budding by interacting
    with capsid proteins. This release of E2 C-terminus in cytoplasm
    occurs lately in protein export, and precludes premature assembly
    of particles at the endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
-!- FUNCTION: 6K is a constitutive membrane protein involved in virus
    glycoprotein processing, membrane permeabilization, and the
    budding of viral particles. Present in low amount in virions,
    about 3% compared to viral glycoproteins. Because of its
    lipophilic properties, the 6K protein is postulated to influence
    the selection of lipids that interact with the transmembrane
    domains of the glycoproteins, which, in turn, affects the
    deformability of the bilayer required for the extreme curvature
    that occurs as budding proceeds.
-!- FUNCTION: E1 is a class II viral fusion protein. Fusion activity
    is inactive as long as E1 is bound to E2 in mature virion. After
    virus attachment to target cell and endocytosis, acidification of
    the endosome would induce dissociation of E1/E2 heterodimer and
    concomitant trimerization of the E1 subunits. This E1 trimer is
    fusion active, and promotes release of viral nucleocapsid in
    cytoplasm after cell and viral membrane fusion. Efficient fusion
    requires the presence of cholesterol and sphingolipid in the
    target membrane. Fusion is optimal at levels of about 1 molecule
    of cholesterol per 2 molecules of phospholipids, and is specific
    for sterols containing a 3beta-hydroxyl group.
-!- SUBUNIT: p62 and E1 form a heterodimer shortly after synthesis.
    Processing of p62 into E2 and E3 results in a heterodimer of E2
    and E1. Spike at virion surface are constituted of three E2-E1
    heterodimers. After target cell attachment and endocytosis, E1
    change conformation to form homotrimers.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Capsid protein: Cytoplasm. p62: Cell
    membrane; single-pass type I membrane protein. E2 envelope
    glycoprotein: Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane protein.
    E1 envelope glycoprotein: Cell membrane; single-pass type I
    membrane protein. 6K protein: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo yield mature proteins.
    Capsid protein is auto-cleaved during polyprotein translation,
    unmasking p62 signal peptide. The remaining polyprotein is then
    targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum, where host signal peptidase
    cleaves it into p62, 6K and E1 proteins. p62 is further processed
    to mature E3 and E2 by host furin in trans-Golgi vesicle. Protein
    processing process takes about 30 minutes at physiologic
    temperatures. The folding of the p62/6K/E1 precursor requires the
    formation of intrachain disulfide bonds and has been shown to
    involve a transient covalent interaction between the nascent and
    newly synthesized heterodimer and the host-cell chaperones,
    P4HB/PDI and PDIA3/ERp57. The folding pathway also includes non
    covalent interaction with human CANX/calnexin and
    CALR/calreticulin.
-!- PTM: Envelope E1, E2 and E3 proteins are N-glycosylated.
-!- PTM: E2 is palmitoylated via thioester bonds. These
    palmitoylations may induce disruption of the C-terminus
    transmembrane. This would result in the reorientation of E2 c-
    terminus from lumenal to cytoplasmic side. 6K protein is also
    palmitoylated with about four covalently bound fatty acids per
    molecule. E1 is stearoylated.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The mature virion nucleocapsid consists of 240
    copies of the capsid protein. 80 spike trimers of E1 and E2 are
    present at the surface of mature virion. They project about 100
    Angstroms from the outer surface and are located at the local and
    strict three fold axis of the icosaedral lattice. The
    glycoproteins splay out to form a protein shell or skirt covering
    most of the outer surface of the membrane bilayer.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Structural polyprotein is translated from a
    subgenomic RNA synthesized during togavirus replication.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S3 domain.
3D-structure; Capsid protein; Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein;
Hydrolase; Lipoprotein; Membrane; Palmitate; Protease;
Serine protease; Signal; Transmembrane; Virion protein.
TMFOUR
