AC   P08491; Q88613; Q88614; Q88615; Q88616; Q88617; Q88728;
Structural polyprotein (p130) [Contains: Capsid protein (EC 3.4.21.-)
(Coat protein) (C); p62 (E3/E2); E3 protein (Spike glycoprotein E3);
E2 envelope glycoprotein (Spike glycoprotein E2); 6K protein; E1
envelope glycoprotein (Spike glycoprotein E1)].
"Ross River virus 26 s RNA: complete nucleotide sequence and deduced
sequence of the encoded structural proteins.";
"Sequence studies of several alphavirus genomic RNAs in the region
containing the start of the subgenomic RNA.";
"Genetic stability of Ross River virus during epidemic spread in
nonimmune humans.";
"An evolutionary tree relating eight alphaviruses, based on amino-
terminal sequences of their glycoproteins.";
-!- FUNCTION: Capsid protein possesses a protease activity that
    results in its autocatalytic cleavage from the nascent structural
    protein. Following its self-cleavage, the capsid protein
    transiently associates with ribosomes, and within several minutes
    the protein binds to viral RNA and rapidly assembles into
    icosaedric core particles. The resulting nucleocapsid eventually
    associates with the cytoplasmic domain of E2 at the cell membrane,
    leading to budding and formation of mature virions. New virions
    attach to target cells, and after endocytosis their membrane fuses
    with the target cell membrane. This leads to the release of the
    nucleocapsid into the cytoplasm, followed by an uncoating event
    necessary for the genomic RNA to become accessible. The uncoating
    might be triggered by the interaction of capsid proteins with
    ribosomes. Binding of ribosomes would release the genomic RNA
    since the same region is genomic RNA-binding and ribosome-binding
    (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: E3 protein's function is unknown (By similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: E2 is responsible for viral attachment to target host
    cell, by binding to the cell receptor. Synthesized as a p62
    precursor which is processed by furin at the cell membrane just
    before virion budding, giving rise to E2-E1 heterodimer. The p62-
    E1 heterodimer is stable, whereas E2-E1 is unstable and dissociate
    at low pH. p62 is processed at the last step, presumably to avoid
    E1 fusion activation before its final export to cell surface. E2
    C-terminus contains a transitory transmembrane that would be
    disrupted by palmitoylation, resulting in reorientation of the C-
    terminal tail from lumenal to cytoplasmic side. This step is
    critical since E2 C-terminus is involved in budding by interacting
    with capsid proteins. This release of E2 C-terminus in cytoplasm
    occurs lately in protein export, and precludes premature assembly
    of particles at the endoplasmic reticulum membrane (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: 6K is a constitutive membrane protein involved in virus
    glycoprotein processing, membrane permeabilization, and the
    budding of viral particles. Because of its lipophilic properties,
    the 6K protein is postulated to influence the selection of lipids
    that interact with the transmembrane domains of the glycoproteins,
    which, in turn, affects the deformability of the bilayer required
    for the extreme curvature that occurs as budding proceeds (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: E1 is a class II viral fusion protein. Fusion activity
    is inactive as long as E1 is bound to E2 in mature virion. After
    virus attachment to target cell and endocytosis, acidification of
    the endosome would induce dissociation of E1/E2 heterodimer and
    concomitant trimerization of the E1 subunits. This E1 trimer is
    fusion active, and promotes release of viral nucleocapsid in
    cytoplasm after cell and viral membrane fusion. Efficient fusion
    requires the presence of cholesterol and sphingolipid in the
    target membrane (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: p62 and E1 form a heterodimer shortly after synthesis.
    Processing of p62 into E2 and E3 results in a heterodimer of E2
    and E1. Spike at virion surface are constituted of three E2-E1
    heterodimers. After target cell attachment and endocytosis, E1
    change conformation to form homotrimers (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Capsid protein: Cytoplasm (By similarity).
    p62: Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane protein (By
    similarity). E2 envelope glycoprotein: Cell membrane; single-pass
    type I membrane protein (By similarity). E1 envelope glycoprotein:
    Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane protein (By
    similarity). 6K protein: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Specific enzymatic cleavages in vivo yield mature proteins.
    Capsid protein is auto-cleaved during polyprotein translation,
    unmasking p62 signal peptide. The remaining polyprotein is then
    targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum, where host signal peptidase
    cleaves it into p62, 6K and E1 proteins. p62 is further processed
    to mature E3 and E2 by host furin in trans-Golgi vesicle (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: E2 and 6K are palmitoylated via thioester bonds.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Structural polyprotein is translated from a
    subgenomic RNA synthesized during togaviruses replication.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S3 domain.
Capsid protein; Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein; Hydrolase;
Lipoprotein; Membrane; Palmitate; Protease; Serine protease; Signal;
Transmembrane; Virion protein.
TMFOUR
