AC   P23907; Q5ECG0; Q6V638; Q6V654; Q712W2; Q712W3; Q7JGT4;
Major prion protein precursor (PrP) (CD230 antigen).
"Two alleles of a neural protein gene linked to scrapie in sheep.";
"Homozygosity for prion protein alleles encoding glutamine-171 renders
sheep susceptible to natural scrapie.";
"Complete genomic sequence and analysis of the prion protein gene
region from three mammalian species.";
"PrP (prion) gene expression in sheep may be modulated by alternative
polyadenylation of its messenger RNA.";
"Identification of a novel ovine PrP polymorphism and scrapie-
resistant genotypes for St. Croix White and a related composite
breed.";
"Prion protein gene polymorphisms in healthy and scrapie affected
sheep in Greece.";
"PrP allelic variants associated with natural scrapie.";
"A set of genotyping controls for 15 haplotype combinations of ovine
PRNP codons 136, 154, and 171.";
"The crystal structure of the globular domain of sheep prion
protein.";
"Insight into the PrPC-->PrPSc conversion from the structures of
antibody-bound ovine prion scrapie-susceptibility variants.";
"Prion protein NMR structures of cats, dogs, pigs, and sheep.";
"Different scrapie-associated fibril proteins (PrP) are encoded by
lines of sheep selected for different alleles of the Sip gene.";
"PrP polymorphisms associated with natural scrapie discovered by
denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.";
"Identification of five allelic variants of the sheep PrP gene and
their association with natural scrapie.";
"PrP genotype contributes to determining survival times of sheep with
natural scrapie.";
-!- FUNCTION: The function of PrP is not known. PrP is encoded in the
    host genome and is expressed both in normal and infected cells.
-!- SUBUNIT: PrP has a tendency to aggregate yielding polymers called
    "rods".
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; lipid-anchor; GPI-anchor.
-!- DISEASE: Polymorphism at position 171 may be related to the
    alleles of scrapie incubation-control (SIC) gene in this species.
-!- DISEASE: Found in high quantity in the brain of humans and animals
    infected with degenerative neurological diseases such as kuru,
    Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome
    (GSS), scrapie, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE),
    transmissible mink encephalopathy (TME), etc.
-!- DISEASE: Scrapie is a transmissible neurodegenerative disorder of
    sheep and goats. Most sheep that contract the disease naturally
    die between 24 and 50 months of age. The incubation period in
    sheep depends on the strain(s) of the infecting pathogen, sheep
    age at exposure, and the sheep genotype. The survival time is
    mainly determined by a single genetic locus, SIP, which has two
    alleles, susceptible (sa) and resistant (pa). Short incubation
    period is conferred by the partially dominant sa allele. Scrapie
    can be spread between flockmates, or it can be transmitted from an
    infected ewe to its lamb.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the prion family.
 GO:0008017; F:microtubule binding; ISS:AgBase.
3D-structure; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; GPI-anchor; Lipoprotein;
Membrane; Polymorphism; Prion; Repeat; Signal.
TMZERO
