AC   P0AB98; P00855; Q2M856; Q47708;
ATP synthase a chain (EC 3.6.3.14) (ATPase protein 6).
"DNA sequence around the Escherichia coli unc operon. Completion of
the sequence of a 17 kilobase segment containing asnA, oriC, unc, glmS
and phoS.";
"The atp operon: nucleotide sequence of the promoter and the genes for
the membrane proteins, and the delta subunit of Escherichia coli ATP-
synthase.";
"The nucleotide sequence of the atp genes coding for the F0 subunits
a, b, c and the F1 subunit delta of the membrane bound ATP synthase of
Escherichia coli.";
"Nucleotide sequence of the genes for F0 components of the proton-
translocating ATPase from Escherichia coli: prediction of the primary
structure of F0 subunits.";
"Structure and function of H+-ATPase: what we have learned from
Escherichia coli H+-ATPase.";
"Impaired proton conductivity resulting from mutations in the a
subunit of F1F0 ATPase in Escherichia coli.";
"DNA sequence and analysis of 136 kilobases of the Escherichia coli
genome: organizational symmetry around the origin of replication.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Overproduction of subunit a of the F0 component of proton-
translocating ATPase inhibits growth of Escherichia coli cells.";
"The promoters of the atp operon of Escherichia coli K12.";
"Genetic evidence for interaction between the a and b subunits of the
F0 portion of the Escherichia coli proton translocating ATPase.";
"Proton translocation by the F1F0ATPase of Escherichia coli. Mutagenic
analysis of the a subunit.";
"Temperature-sensitive mutations at the carboxy terminus of the alpha
subunit of the Escherichia coli F1F0 ATP synthase.";
"A topological analysis of subunit alpha from Escherichia coli F1F0-
ATP synthase predicts eight transmembrane segments.";
"The transmembrane topology of the a subunit from the ATPase in
Escherichia coli analyzed by PhoA protein fusions.";
"Transmembrane topology of Escherichia coli H(+)-ATPase (ATP synthase)
subunit a.";
"Transmembrane topography of subunit a in the Escherichia coli F1F0
ATP synthase.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Structural changes linked to proton translocation by subunit c of the
ATP synthase.";
-!- FUNCTION: Key component of the proton channel; it may play a
    direct role in the translocation of protons across the membrane.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O + H(+)(In) = ADP + phosphate +
    H(+)(Out).
-!- SUBUNIT: F-type ATPases have 2 components, CF(1) - the catalytic
    core - and CF(0) - the membrane proton channel. CF(1) has five
    subunits: alpha(3), beta(3), gamma(1), delta(1), epsilon(1). CF(0)
    has three main subunits: a, b and c.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ATPase A chain family.
3D-structure; CF(0); Complete proteome; Hydrogen ion transport;
Inner membrane; Ion transport; Membrane; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFIVE
