AC   P08839;
Phosphoenolpyruvate-protein phosphotransferase (EC 2.7.3.9)
(Phosphotransferase system, enzyme I).
"The ptsH, ptsI, and crr genes of the Escherichia coli
phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system: a complex
operon with several modes of transcription.";
"Sugar transport by the bacterial phosphotransferase system. Molecular
cloning and structural analysis of the Escherichia coli ptsH, ptsI,
and crr genes.";
"Construction of a contiguous 874-kb sequence of the Escherichia coli-
K12 genome corresponding to 50.0-68.8 min on the linkage map and
analysis of its sequence features.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Analysis of the ptsH-ptsI-crr region in Escherichia coli K-12:
nucleotide sequence of the ptsH gene.";
"DNA sequences of the cysK regions of Salmonella typhimurium and
Escherichia coli and linkage of the cysK regions to ptsH.";
"Comparing the predicted and observed properties of proteins encoded
in the genome of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"The first step in sugar transport: crystal structure of the amino
terminal domain of enzyme I of the E. coli PEP: sugar
phosphotransferase system and a model of the phosphotransfer complex
with HPr.";
"Solution structure of the 30 kDa N-terminal domain of enzyme I of the
Escherichia coli phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system
by multidimensional NMR.";
"Tautomeric state and pKa of the phosphorylated active site histidine
in the N-terminal domain of enzyme I of the Escherichia coli
phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system.";
"Solution structure of the 40,000 Mr phosphoryl transfer complex
between the N-terminal domain of enzyme I and HPr.";
-!- FUNCTION: This is a component of the phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent
    sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system. Enzyme I transfers the phosphoryl group from
    phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to the phosphoryl carrier protein (HPr).
    Enzyme I is common to all PTS.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Phosphoenolpyruvate + protein L-histidine =
    pyruvate + protein N(pi)-phospho-L-histidine.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P0AA04:ptsH; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-551533, EBI-902853;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the PEP-utilizing enzyme family.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Kinase;
Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport;
Transferase; Transport.
TMZERO
