AC   P20966;
PTS system fructose-specific EIIBC component (EIIBC-Fru) [Includes:
Fructose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component
(EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system fructose-specific EIIB component) (EIII-
Fru); Fructose permease IIC component (PTS system fructose-specific
EIIC component)].
"Nucleotide sequence of fruA, the gene specifying enzyme IIfru of the
phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar phosphotransferase system in
Escherichia coli K12.";
"Automated multiplex sequencing of the E.coli genome.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"A 460-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 40.1-50.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"Sequence similarities between the gene specifying 1-
phosphofructokinase (fruK), genes specifying other kinases in
Escherichia coli K12, and lacC of Staphylococcus aureus.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in fructose transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-2 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-2 domain.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Kinase; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Repeat; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMNINE
