AC   P69786; P05053;
PTS system glucose-specific EIICB component (EIICB-Glc) (EII-Glc)
[Includes: Glucose permease IIC component (PTS system glucose-specific
EIIC component); Glucose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB
component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system glucose-specific EIIB component)].
"Glucose permease of the bacterial phosphotransferase system. Gene
cloning, overproduction, and amino acid sequence of enzyme IIGlc.";
"A 718-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 12.7-28.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Cysteine phosphorylation of the glucose transporter of Escherichia
coli.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"The glucose transporter of Escherichia coli. Assignment of the 1H,
13C and 15N resonances and identification of the secondary structure
of the soluble IIB domain.";
"Solution structure of the IIB domain of the glucose transporter of
Escherichia coli.";
"Glucose transporter of Escherichia coli: NMR characterization of the
phosphocysteine form of the IIB(Glc) domain and its binding interface
with the IIA(Glc) subunit.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in glucose transport. This
    enzyme is also a chemoreceptor monitoring the environment for
    changes in sugar concentration.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P69783:crr; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-903497, EBI-369856;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Kinase; Membrane;
Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport;
Transferase; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
