AC   P69783; P08837; Q47703;
Glucose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIA component (EC 2.7.1.-)
(PTS system glucose-specific EIIA component) (EIIA-Glc) (EIII-Glc).
"The ptsH, ptsI, and crr genes of the Escherichia coli
phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system: a complex
operon with several modes of transcription.";
"Sugar transport by the bacterial phosphotransferase system. Molecular
cloning and structural analysis of the Escherichia coli ptsH, ptsI,
and crr genes.";
"Identification of the pdxK gene that encodes pyridoxine (vitamin B6)
kinase in Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Molecular population genetics of Escherichia coli: DNA sequence
diversity at the celC, crr, and gutB loci of natural isolates.";
"Construction of a contiguous 874-kb sequence of the Escherichia coli-
K12 genome corresponding to 50.0-68.8 min on the linkage map and
analysis of its sequence features.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Comparing the predicted and observed properties of proteins encoded
in the genome of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Protein identification with N and C-terminal sequence tags in
proteome projects.";
"Three-dimensional structure of the Escherichia coli phosphocarrier
protein IIIglc.";
"Structure of the regulatory complex of Escherichia coli IIIGlc with
glycerol kinase.";
"Cation-promoted association of a regulatory and target protein is
controlled by protein phosphorylation.";
"Structural studies of the Escherichia coli signal transducing protein
IIAGlc: implications for target recognition.";
"1H, 15N, and 13C NMR signal assignments of IIIGlc, a signal-
transducing protein of Escherichia coli, using three-dimensional
triple-resonance techniques.";
"Secondary structure of the phosphocarrier protein IIIGlc, a signal-
transducing protein from Escherichia coli, determined by heteronuclear
three-dimensional NMR spectroscopy.";
"Structural comparison of phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms of
IIIGlc, a signal-transducing protein from Escherichia coli, using
three-dimensional NMR techniques.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in glucose transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIA N(pi)-phospho-L-histidine +
    protein EIIB = protein EIIA + protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per glycerol kinase EIIA-Glc dimer. The
    zinc ion is important for dimerization.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P69786:ptsG; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-369856, EBI-903497;
    P0AA04:ptsH; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-369856, EBI-902853;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIA domain is phosphorylated by phospho-HPr on a
    histidyl residue. Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the
    EIIB domain.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The non-phosphorylated factor III is an inhibitor
    for uptake of certain sugars such as maltose, melibiose, lactose,
    and glycerol. Phosphorylated factor III, however, may be an
    activator for adenylate cyclase. It is an important regulatory
    protein for cell metabolism.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIA type-1 domain.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Kinase;
Metal-binding; Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system;
Sugar transport; Transferase; Transport; Zinc.
TMZERO
