AC   P20166; P08875;
PTS system glucose-specific EIICBA component (EIICBA-Glc) (EII-
Glc/EIII-Glc) [Includes: Glucose permease IIC component (PTS system
glucose-specific EIIC component); Glucose-specific phosphotransferase
enzyme IIB component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system glucose-specific EIIB
component); Glucose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIA component
(EC 2.7.1.-) (PTS system glucose-specific EIIA component)].
"Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the ptsG gene of Bacillus
subtilis.";
"The complete genome sequence of the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus
subtilis.";
"Phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system of Bacillus
subtilis: nucleotide sequence of ptsX, ptsH and the 5'-end of ptsI and
evidence for a ptsHI operon.";
"The glucose permease of the phosphotransferase system of Bacillus
subtilis: evidence for IIGlc and IIIGlc domains.";
"The glucose permease of Bacillus subtilis is a single polypeptide
chain that functions to energize the sucrose permease.";
"Structure of the IIA domain of the glucose permease of Bacillus
subtilis at 2.2-A resolution.";
"Polypeptide backbone resonance assignments and secondary structure of
Bacillus subtilis enzyme IIIglc determined by two-dimensional and
three-dimensional heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy.";
"High-resolution solution structure of Bacillus subtilis IIAglc.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in glucose transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIA N(pi)-phospho-L-histidine +
    protein EIIB = protein EIIA + protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIA domain is phosphorylated by phospho-HPr on a
    histidyl residue. Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the
    EIIB domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIA type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Kinase; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMELEVEN
