AC   P0AA04; P05525; P07006;
Phosphocarrier protein HPr (Histidine-containing protein).
"The ptsH, ptsI, and crr genes of the Escherichia coli
phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system: a complex
operon with several modes of transcription.";
"Analysis of the ptsH-ptsI-crr region in Escherichia coli K-12:
nucleotide sequence of the ptsH gene.";
"Sugar transport by the bacterial phosphotransferase system. Molecular
cloning and structural analysis of the Escherichia coli ptsH, ptsI,
and crr genes.";
"DNA sequences of the cysK regions of Salmonella typhimurium and
Escherichia coli and linkage of the cysK regions to ptsH.";
"Construction of a contiguous 874-kb sequence of the Escherichia coli-
K12 genome corresponding to 50.0-68.8 min on the linkage map and
analysis of its sequence features.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Small genes/gene-products in Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Comparing the predicted and observed properties of proteins encoded
in the genome of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Effect of phosphorylation on hydrogen-bonding interactions of the
active site histidine of the phosphocarrier protein HPr of the
phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system determined by
15N NMR spectroscopy.";
"The 2.0-A resolution structure of Escherichia coli histidine-
containing phosphocarrier protein HPr. A redetermination.";
"Mutation of serine-46 to aspartate in the histidine-containing
protein of Escherichia coli mimics the inactivation by phosphorylation
of serine-46 in HPrs from Gram-positive bacteria.";
"Two-dimensional 1H NMR studies of histidine-containing protein from
Escherichia coli. 3. Secondary and tertiary structure as determined by
NMR.";
"Reexamination of the secondary and tertiary structure of histidine-
containing protein from Escherichia coli by homonuclear and
heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy.";
"Determination of the three-dimensional solution structure of the
histidine-containing phosphocarrier protein HPr from Escherichia coli
using multidimensional NMR spectroscopy.";
"The high-resolution structure of the histidine-containing
phosphocarrier protein HPr from Escherichia coli determined by
restrained molecular dynamics from nuclear magnetic resonance nuclear
Overhauser effect data.";
"High-resolution structure of the phosphorylated form of the
histidine-containing phosphocarrier protein HPr from Escherichia coli
determined by restrained molecular dynamics from NMR-NOE data.";
"Phosphorylation-induced torsion-angle strain in the active center of
HPr, detected by NMR and restrained molecular dynamics refinement.";
"Solution structure of the 40,000 Mr phosphoryl transfer complex
between the N-terminal domain of enzyme I and HPr.";
-!- FUNCTION: This is a component of the phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent
    sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system. The phosphoryl group from phosphoenolpyruvate
    (PEP) is transferred to the phosphoryl carrier protein HPr by
    enzyme I. Phospho-HPr then transfers it to the permease (enzymes
    II/III). HPr is common to all PTS.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P69783:crr; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-902853, EBI-369856;
    P08839:ptsI; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-902853, EBI-551533;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the HPr family.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport;
Transport.
TMZERO
