AC   P24241; Q2MAB4; Q46880; Q6BF64;
PTS system arbutin-, cellobiose-, and salicin-specific EIIBC component
(EIIBC-Asc) (EII-Asc) [Includes: Arbutin-, cellobiose-, and salicin-
specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS
system arbutin-, cellobiose-, and salicin-specific EIIB component);
Arbutin, cellobiose, and salicin permease IIC component (PTS system
arbutin-, cellobiose-, and salicin-specific EIIC component)].
"Nucleotide sequence, function, activation, and evolution of the
cryptic asc operon of Escherichia coli K12.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Escherichia coli K-12: a cooperatively developed annotation snapshot
-- 2005.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in arbutin, cellobiose, and
    salicin transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
