AC   P19642; P77621;
PTS system maltose- and glucose-specific EIICB component [Includes:
Maltose and glucose permease IIC component (PTS system maltose- and
glucose-specific EIIC component); Maltose- and glucose-specific
phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system
maltose- and glucose-specific EIIB component)].
"The malX malY operon of Escherichia coli encodes a novel enzyme II of
the phosphotransferase system recognizing glucose and maltose and an
enzyme abolishing the endogenous induction of the maltose system.";
"A 570-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 28.0-40.1 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"MalI, a novel protein involved in regulation of the maltose system of
Escherichia coli, is highly homologous to the repressor proteins GalR,
CytR, and LacI.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in maltose and glucose
    transport.
-!- FUNCTION: MalX encodes a phosphotransferase system enzyme II that
    can recognize glucose and maltose as substrates even though these
    sugars may not represent the natural substrates of the system.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
