AC   P69797; P08186; Q47350;
PTS system mannose-specific EIIAB component (EIIAB-Man) [Includes:
Mannose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIA component (EC 2.7.1.-)
(PTS system mannose-specific EIIA component) (EIII-Man); Mannose-
specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS
system mannose-specific EIIB component)].
"Nucleotide sequence of manX(ptsL) encoding the enzyme III(Man) (II-
A(Man)) function in the phosphotransferase system of Escherichia coli
K-12.";
"The mannose permease of Escherichia coli consists of three different
proteins. Amino acid sequence and function in sugar transport, sugar
phosphorylation, and penetration of phage lambda DNA.";
"A 460-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 40.1-50.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Comparing the predicted and observed properties of proteins encoded
in the genome of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Protein complexes of the Escherichia coli cell envelope.";
"Structure of the IIA domain of the mannose transporter from
Escherichia coli at 1.7-A resolution.";
"Predicted topology of the N-terminal domain of the hydrophilic
subunit of the mannose transporter of Escherichia coli.";
"Secondary structure of the IIB domain of the Escherichia coli mannose
transporter, a new fold in the class of alpha/beta twisted open-sheet
structures.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in mannose transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIA N(pi)-phospho-L-histidine +
    protein EIIB = protein EIIA + protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P0ACN7:cytR; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-554089, EBI-1125696;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm. Cell inner membrane; peripheral
    membrane protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIA domain is phosphorylated by phospho-HPr on a
    histidyl residue. Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the
    EIIB domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIA type-4 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-4 domain.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport;
Transferase; Transport.
TMZERO
