AC   P69791; P17335; Q47092; Q47093; Q47094; Q57128;
N,N'-diacetylchitobiose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIA
component (EC 2.7.1.-) (PTS system N,N'-diacetylchitobiose-specific
EIIA component) (EIIA-Chb) (EIII-Chb).
"Characterization and nucleotide sequence of the cryptic cel operon of
Escherichia coli K12.";
"Molecular population genetics of Escherichia coli: DNA sequence
diversity at the celC, crr, and gutB loci of natural isolates.";
"A 570-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 28.0-40.1 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Wild-type Escherichia coli grows on the chitin disaccharide, N,N'-
diacetylchitobiose, by expressing the cel operon.";
"The chitin disaccharide, N,N'-diacetylchitobiose, is catabolized by
Escherichia coli and is transported/phosphorylated by the
phosphoenolpyruvate:glycose phosphotransferase system.";
"Isolation and characterization of IIAChb, a soluble protein of the
enzyme II complex required for the transport/phosphorylation of N, N'-
diacetylchitobiose in Escherichia coli.";
"Analytical sedimentation of the IIAChb and IIBChb proteins of the
Escherichia coli N,N'-diacetylchitobiose phosphotransferase system.
Demonstration of a model phosphotransfer transition state complex.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in N,N'-diacetylchitobiose
    transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIA N(pi)-phospho-L-histidine +
    protein EIIB = protein EIIA + protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine.
-!- PATHWAY: N,N'-diacetylchitobiose utilization.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer; in both its unphosphorylated and
    phosphorylated forms.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- INDUCTION: By N,N'-diacetylchitobiose.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIA domain is phosphorylated by phospho-HPr on a
    histidyl residue. Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the
    EIIB domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIA type-3 domain.
-!- CAUTION: Was originally (Ref.1) characterized as part of a cryptic
    cel operon for a cellobiose degradation system. The Cel+ phenotype
    is due to mutations making expression chitobiose-independent and
    altering the substrate specificity.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase; Transport.
TMZERO
