AC   P69795; P17409;
N,N'-diacetylchitobiose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB
component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system N,N'-diacetylchitobiose-specific
EIIB component).
"Characterization and nucleotide sequence of the cryptic cel operon of
Escherichia coli K12.";
"A 570-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 28.0-40.1 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"The cellobiose permease of Escherichia coli consists of three
proteins and is homologous to the lactose permease of Staphylococcus
aureus.";
"Wild-type Escherichia coli grows on the chitin disaccharide, N,N'-
diacetylchitobiose, by expressing the cel operon.";
"The chitin disaccharide, N,N'-diacetylchitobiose, is catabolized by
Escherichia coli and is transported/phosphorylated by the
phosphoenolpyruvate:glycose phosphotransferase system.";
"The transport/phosphorylation of N,N'-diacetylchitobiose in
Escherichia coli. Characterization of phospho-IIB(Chb) and of a
potential transition state analogue in the phosphotransfer reaction
between the proteins IIA(Chb) and IIB(Chb).";
"Analytical sedimentation of the IIAChb and IIBChb proteins of the
Escherichia coli N,N'-diacetylchitobiose phosphotransferase system.
Demonstration of a model phosphotransfer transition state complex.";
"Enzyme IIBcellobiose of the phosphoenol-pyruvate-dependent
phosphotransferase system of Escherichia coli: backbone assignment and
secondary structure determined by three-dimensional NMR
spectroscopy.";
"The NMR side-chain assignments and solution structure of enzyme
IIBcellobiose of the phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase
system of Escherichia coli.";
"The structure of an energy-coupling protein from bacteria,
IIBcellobiose, reveals similarity to eukaryotic protein tyrosine
phosphatases.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in N,N'-diacetylchitobiose
    transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- PATHWAY: N,N'-diacetylchitobiose utilization.
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer; in both its unphosphorylated and phosphorylated
    forms.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm.
-!- INDUCTION: By N,N'-diacetylchitobiose.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-3 domain.
-!- CAUTION: Was originally (Ref.5) characterized as part of a cryptic
    cel operon for a cellobiose degradation system. The Cel+ phenotype
    is due to mutations making expression chitobiose-independent and
    altering the substrate specificity.
 GO:0008982; F:protein-N(PI)-phosphohistidine-sugar phosph...; IEA:EC.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase; Transport.
TMZERO
