AC   P05306;
PTS system sucrose-specific EIIBC component (EIIBC-Scr) (EII-Scr)
[Includes: Sucrose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component
(EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system sucrose-specific EIIB component); Sucrose
permease IIC component (PTS system sucrose-specific EIIC component)].
"Bacillus subtilis sucrose-specific enzyme II of the
phosphotransferase system: expression in Escherichia coli and homology
to enzymes II from enteric bacteria.";
"Bacillus subtilis genome project: cloning and sequencing of the 97 kb
region from 325 degrees to 333 degrees.";
"The complete genome sequence of the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus
subtilis.";
"Detecting and analyzing DNA sequencing errors: toward a higher
quality of the Bacillus subtilis genome sequence.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in sucrose transport (By
    similarity).
-!- FUNCTION: Acts as both a kinase and a phosphatase on sacT (By
    similarity).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Potential).
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
