AC   P17334; P76212; P76907; P77332;
N,N'-diacetylchitobiose permease IIC component (PTS system N,N'-
diacetylchitobiose-specific EIIC component) (EIIC-Chb).
"Characterization and nucleotide sequence of the cryptic cel operon of
Escherichia coli K12.";
"A 570-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 28.0-40.1 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"The cellobiose permease of Escherichia coli consists of three
proteins and is homologous to the lactose permease of Staphylococcus
aureus.";
"Wild-type Escherichia coli grows on the chitin disaccharide, N,N'-
diacetylchitobiose, by expressing the cel operon.";
"The chitin disaccharide, N,N'-diacetylchitobiose, is catabolized by
Escherichia coli and is transported/phosphorylated by the
phosphoenolpyruvate:glycose phosphotransferase system.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in N,N'-diacetylchitobiose
    transport.
-!- PATHWAY: N,N'-diacetylchitobiose utilization.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- INDUCTION: By N,N'-diacetylchitobiose.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-3 domain.
-!- CAUTION: Was originally (Ref.5) characterized as part of a cryptic
    cel operon for a cellobiose degradation system. The Cel+ phenotype
    is due to mutations making expression chitobiose-independent and
    altering the substrate specificity.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
