AC   P39794; O34771;
PTS system trehalose-specific EIIBC component (EIIBC-Tre) (EII-Tre)
[Includes: Trehalose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component
(EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system trehalose-specific EIIB component);
Trehalose permease IIC component (PTS system trehalose-specific EIIC
component)].
"Analysis of DNA flanking the treA gene of Bacillus subtilis reveals
genes encoding a putative specific enzyme IITre and a potential
regulator of the trehalose operon.";
"Cloning and sequencing of a 40.6 kb segment in the 73 degrees-76
degrees region of the Bacillus subtilis chromosome containing genes
for trehalose metabolism and acetoin utilization.";
"Cloning and sequencing of a 35.7 kb in the 70 degree-73 degree region
of the Bacillus subtilis genome reveal genes for a new two-component
system, three spore germination proteins, an iron uptake system and a
general stress response protein.";
"The complete genome sequence of the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus
subtilis.";
"Cleavage of trehalose-phosphate in Bacillus subtilis is catalysed by
a phospho-alpha-(1-1)-glucosidase encoded by the treA gene.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in trehalose transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
