AC   P08470;
PTS system sucrose-specific EIIBC component (EIIBC-Scr) (EII-Scr)
[Includes: Sucrose-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component
(EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system sucrose-specific EIIB component); Sucrose
permease IIC component (PTS system sucrose-specific EIIC component)].
"DNA sequence of the gene scrA encoding the sucrose transport protein
EnzymeII(Scr) of the phosphotransferase system from enteric bacteria:
homology of the EnzymeII(Scr) and EnzymeII(Bgl) proteins.";
"Molecular analysis of two ScrR repressors and of a ScrR-FruR hybrid
repressor for sucrose and D-fructose specific regulons from enteric
bacteria.";
"Molecular analysis of the scrA and scrB genes from Klebsiella
pneumoniae and plasmid pUR400, which encode the sucrose transport
protein Enzyme II Scr of the phosphotransferase system and a sucrose-
6-phosphate invertase.";
"Plasmid-mediated sucrose metabolism in Escherichia coli:
characterization of scrY, the structural gene for a
phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sucrose phosphotransferase system outer
membrane porin.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in sucrose transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein (Probable).
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Inner membrane; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system;
Plasmid; Sugar transport; Transferase; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
