AC   P39816;
Putative PTS system glucosamine-specific EIICBA component [Includes:
Glucosamine permease IIC component (PTS system glucosamine-specific
EIIC component); Glucosamine-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB
component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system glucosamine-specific EIIB
component); Glucosamine-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIA
component (EC 2.7.1.-) (PTS system glucosamine-specific EIIA
component)].
"Sequence analysis of the 70kb region between 17 and 23 degree of the
Bacillus subtilis chromosome.";
"The complete genome sequence of the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus
subtilis.";
"Characterization of the proton/glutamate symport protein of Bacillus
subtilis and its functional expression in Escherichia coli.";
"Novel phosphotransferase system genes revealed by genome analysis -
the complete complement of PTS proteins encoded within the genome of
Bacillus subtilis.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane (By similarity). This system may be involved in
    glucosamine transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIA N(pi)-phospho-L-histidine +
    protein EIIB = protein EIIA + protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Potential).
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIA domain is phosphorylated by phospho-HPr on a
    histidyl residue. Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the
    EIIB domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIA type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Hypothetical protein; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSEVEN
