AC   P77272;
PTS system N-acetylmuramic acid-specific EIIBC component (EIIBC-
MurNAc) [Includes: N-acetylmuramic acid-specific phosphotransferase
enzyme IIB component (EC 2.7.1.69) (PTS system N-acetylmuramic acid-
specific EIIB component); N-acetylmuramic acid permease IIC component
(PTS system N-acetylmuramic acid-specific EIIC component)].
"Construction of a contiguous 874-kb sequence of the Escherichia coli-
K12 genome corresponding to 50.0-68.8 min on the linkage map and
analysis of its sequence features.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Identification of a phosphotransferase system of Escherichia coli
required for growth on N-acetylmuramic acid.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"MurQ etherase is required by Escherichia coli in order to metabolize
anhydro-N-acetylmuramic acid obtained either from the environment or
from its own cell wall.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active
    -transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in N-acetylmuramic acid (MurNAc)
    transport, yielding cytoplasmic MurNAc-6-P. Is responsible for
    growth on MurNAc as the sole source of carbon and energy. Is also
    able to take up anhydro-N-acetylmuramic acid (anhMurNAc), but
    cannot phosphorylate the carbon 6, probably because of the 1,6-
    anhydro ring.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIC domain forms the PTS system translocation channel
    and contains the specific substrate-binding site.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The PTS domain EIIA required for activity was shown
    to be the crr-encoded enzyme IIA-glucose, EIIA-Glc.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIC type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Phosphotransferase system; Sugar transport; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTEN
