AC   P78363; O15112; O60438; O60915;
Retinal-specific ATP-binding cassette transporter (ATP-binding
cassette sub-family A member 4) (RIM ABC transporter) (RIM protein)
(RmP) (Stargardt disease protein).
"A photoreceptor cell-specific ATP-binding transporter gene (ABCR) is
mutated in recessive Stargardt macular dystrophy.";
"The photoreceptor rim protein is an ABC transporter encoded by the
gene for recessive Stargardt's disease (ABCR).";
"Complete exon-intron structure of the retina-specific ATP binding
transporter gene (ABCR) allows the identification of novel mutations
underlying Stargardt disease.";
"Mapping of the rod photoreceptor ABC transporter (ABCR) to 1p21-p22.1
and identification of novel mutations in Stargardt's disease.";
"Retinal stimulates ATP hydrolysis by purified and reconstituted ABCR,
the photoreceptor-specific ATP-binding cassette transporter
responsible for Stargardt disease.";
"Autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa and cone-rod dystrophy
caused by splice site mutations in the Stargardt's disease gene
ABCR.";
"Mutation of the Stargardt disease gene (ABCR) in age-related macular
degeneration.";
"Spectrum of ABCR gene mutations in autosomal recessive macular
dystrophies.";
"Genotype/phenotype analysis of a photoreceptor-specific ATP-binding
cassette transporter gene, ABCR, in Stargardt disease.";
"The 2588G-->C mutation in the ABCR gene is a mild frequent founder
mutation in the western European population and allows the
classification of ABCR Mutations in patients with Stargardt disease.";
"A novel mutation in the ABCR gene in four patients with autosomal
recessive Stargardt disease.";
"Variation of clinical expression in patients with Stargardt dystrophy
and sequence variations in the ABCR gene.";
"Further evidence for an association of ABCR alleles with age-related
macular degeneration.";
"A comprehensive survey of sequence variation in the ABCA4 (ABCR) gene
in Stargardt disease and age-related macular degeneration.";
"Mutations in the ABCA4 (ABCR) gene are the major cause of autosomal
recessive cone-rod dystrophy.";
"Complex inheritance of ABCR mutations in Stargardt disease: linkage
disequilibrium, complex alleles, and pseudodominance.";
"An analysis of ABCR mutations in British patients with recessive
retinal dystrophies.";
"New ABCR mutations and clinical phenotype in Italian patients with
Stargardt disease.";
"Biochemical defects in ABCR protein variants associated with human
retinopathies.";
"Different clinical expressions in two families with Stargardt's
macular dystrophy (STGD1).";
"Analysis of the ABCR (ABCA4) gene in 4-aminoquinoline retinopathy: is
retinal toxicity by chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine related to
Stargardt disease?";
"Variation of codons 1961 and 2177 of the Stargardt disease gene is
not associated with age-related macular degeneration.";
"Late-onset Stargardt disease is associated with missense mutations
that map outside known functional regions of ABCR (ABCA4).";
"Spectrum of ABCA4 (ABCR) gene mutations in Spanish patients with
autosomal recessive macular dystrophies.";
"An analysis of allelic variation in the ABCA4 gene.";
"Mutations in ABCR (ABCA4) in patients with Stargardt macular
degeneration or cone-rod degeneration.";
"Catalog of 605 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) among 13 genes
encoding human ATP-binding cassette transporters: ABCA4, ABCA7, ABCA8,
ABCD1, ABCD3, ABCD4, ABCE1, ABCF1, ABCG1, ABCG2, ABCG4, ABCG5, and
ABCG8.";
-!- FUNCTION: May play a role in photoresponse. Retinoids, and most
    likely retinal, are the natural substrates for transport by abcr
    in rod outer segments. May act in the visual cycle to flip PE-all-
    trans-retinal adducts from the lumenal to the cytosolic face of
    the disk membrane, move free all-trans-retinal from the lipid
    phase of the disk membrane to a juxtamembrane location, or
    possibly reorient all-trans-retinal in the bilayer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Retinal-specific. Seems to be exclusively
    found in the rims of rod photoreceptor cells.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: The variant Ala-863 is present in the general
    population at a frequency of approximately 3% and 1% in Northern
    Europe and United States, respectively. It is a mild alteration
    probably leading to STGD phenotype only in combination with a more
    severe allele. The variant Glu-1961 is found with high frequency
    in healthy individuals of Somali ancestry.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCA4 are a cause of Stargardt disease (STGD)
    [MIM:248200]; also known as juvenile macular degeneration. STGD is
    an autosomal recessive retinal disorder and one of the most
    frequent causes of macular degeneration in childhood. It is
    characterized by macular dystrophy with juvenile-onset, rapidly
    progressive course, alterations of the peripheral retina, and
    subretinal deposition of lipofuscin-like material.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCA4 are the cause of fundus flavimaculatus
    (FFM) [MIM:248200]. FFM is an autosomal recessive retinal disorder
    very similar to Stargardt disease. In contrast to Stargardt
    disease, FFM is characterized by later onset and slowly
    progressive course.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCA4 may be a cause of age-related macular
    degeneration 2 (ARMD2) [MIM:153800]. ARMD is the most common cause
    of irreversible vision loss in the developed world. In most
    patients, the disease is manifest as ophthalmoscopically visible
    yellowish accumulations of protein and lipid (known as drusen)
    that lie beneath the retinal pigment epithelium and within an
    elastin-containing structure known as Bruch membrane. ARMD is
    likely to be a mechanistically heterogeneous group of disorders,
    and the specific disease mechanisms that underlie the vast
    majority of cases are currently unknown. However, a number of
    studies have suggested that both genetic and environmental factors
    are likely to play a role.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCA4 are the cause of cone-rod dystrophy 3
    (CORD3) [MIM:604116]. Inheritance is autosomal recessive.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCA4 are the cause of retinitis pigmentosa 19
    (RP19) [MIM:601718]. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) [MIM:268000] leads
    to degeneration of retinal photoreceptor cells. Patients typically
    have night vision blindness and loss of midperipheral visual
    field. As their condition progresses, they lose their far
    peripheral visual field and eventually central vision as well.
    RP19 is characterized by choroidal atrophy. Inheritance is
    autosomal recessive.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. ABCA subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transporter domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Mutations of the ABCA4 gene;
    NOTE=Retina International's Scientific Newsletter;
    URL="http://www.retina-international.com/sci-news/abcrmut.htm".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ABCA4".
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005524; F:ATP binding; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0042626; F:ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane m...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005215; F:transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007603; P:phototransduction, visible light; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007601; P:visual perception; TAS:ProtInc.
Age-related macular degeneration; ATP-binding; Cone-rod dystrophy;
Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding;
Polymorphism; Repeat; Retinitis pigmentosa; Sensory transduction;
Stargardt disease; Transmembrane; Transport; Vision.
TMSIXTEEN
