AC   Q09428; O75948; Q16583;
ATP-binding cassette transporter sub-family C member 8 (Sulfonylurea
receptor 1).
"Human beta cell sulfonylurea receptor, SUR1, expression.";
"Mutations in the sulfonylurea receptor gene in familial persistent
hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy.";
"Membrane topology of the amino-terminal region of the sulfonylurea
receptor.";
"Molecular biology of adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium
channels.";
"Congenital hyperinsulinism: molecular basis of a heterogeneous
disease.";
"Inactivation of the first nucleotide-binding fold of the sulfonylurea
receptor, and familial persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of
infancy.";
"Sequence variants in the sulfonylurea receptor (SUR) gene are
associated with NIDDM in Caucasians.";
"Mutations in the sulfonylurea receptor gene are associated with
familial hyperinsulinism in Ashkenazi Jews.";
"Adenosine diphosphate as an intracellular regulator of insulin
secretion.";
"Identification and functional analysis of sulfonylurea receptor 1
variants in Japanese patients with NIDDM.";
"Decreased tolbutamide-stimulated insulin secretion in healthy
subjects with sequence variants in the high-affinity sulfonylurea
receptor gene.";
"Functional analyses of novel mutations in the sulfonylurea receptor 1
associated with persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy.";
"Genetic heterogeneity in familial hyperinsulinism.";
"Paternal mutation of the sulfonylurea receptor (SUR1) gene and
maternal loss of 11p15 imprinted genes lead to persistent
hyperinsulinism in focal adenomatous hyperplasia.";
"A point mutation inactivating the sulfonylurea receptor causes the
severe form of persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy in
Finland.";
"Intragenic single nucleotide polymorphism haplotype analysis of SUR1
mutations in familial hyperinsulinism.";
"Genetic analysis of Japanese patients with persistent
hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy: nucleotide-binding fold-2
mutation impairs cooperative binding of adenine nucleotides to
sulfonylurea receptor 1.";
"Dominantly inherited hyperinsulinism caused by a mutation in the
sulfonylurea receptor type 1.";
"Defective trafficking and function of KATP channels caused by a
sulfonylurea receptor 1 mutation associated with persistent
hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy.";
"Identification of a familial hyperinsulinism-causing mutation in the
sulfonylurea receptor 1 that prevents normal trafficking and function
of KATP channels.";
"Clinical and molecular characterization of a dominant form of
congenital hyperinsulinism caused by a mutation in the high-affinity
sulfonylurea receptor.";
"Familial leucine-sensitive hypoglycemia of infancy due to a dominant
mutation of the beta-cell sulfonylurea receptor.";
"A heterozygous activating mutation in the sulphonylurea receptor SUR1
(ABCC8) causes neonatal diabetes.";
"Activating mutations in the ABCC8 gene in neonatal diabetes
mellitus.";
-!- FUNCTION: Putative subunit of the beta-cell ATP-sensitive
    potassium channel (KATP). Regulator of ATP-sensitive K+ channels
    and insulin release.
-!- SUBUNIT: Associates with KCNJ11.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q09428-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q09428-2; Sequence=VSP_000055;
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCC8 are a cause of leucine-induced
    hypoglycemia (LIH) [MIM:240800]; also called leucine-sensitive
    hypoglycemia of infancy. LIH is a rare cause of hypoglycemia and
    is described as a condition in which symptomatic hypoglycemia is
    provoked by high protein feedings. Hypoglicemia is also elicited
    by administration of oral or intravenous infusions of a single
    amino acid, leucine.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCC8 are a cause of persistent
    hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI) [MIM:601820,
    256450]; also referred to as familial or congenital
    hyperinsulinism. PHHI is an autosomal recessive disorder
    characterized by unregulated and high insulin secretion. It causes
    nesidioblastosis, a diffuse abnormality of the pancreas in which
    there is extensive, often disorganized formation of new islets.
    PHHI has a variable clinical phenotype but usually presents during
    the neonatal period or infancy with seizures, coma, and often
    large birth weight for gestational age. Also dominantly inherited
    forms are known.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCC8 are a cause of permanent neonatal
    diabetes mellitus (PNDM) [MIM:606176]; also called permanent
    diabetes mellitus of infancy (PDMI). PNDM is a rare form of
    diabetes characterized by insulin-requiring hyperglycemia that is
    diagnosed within the first months of life. Permanent neonatal
    diabetes requires lifelong therapy.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCC8 are the cause of transient neonatal
    diabetes mellitus 2 (TNDM2) [MIM:610374]. Neonatal diabetes is a
    form of diabetes mellitus defined by the onset of mild-to-severe
    hyperglycemia within the first months of life. Transient neonatal
    diabetes remits early, with a possible relapse during adolescence.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCC8 may contribute to non-insulin-dependent
    diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), also known as type II diabetes
    mellitus, in Northern European Caucasians.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. Conjugate
    transporter (TC 3.A.1.208) subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transmembrane type-1 domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transporter domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ABCC8".
 GO:0005524; F:ATP binding; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015079; F:potassium ion transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008281; F:sulfonylurea receptor activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005975; P:carbohydrate metabolism; NAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; Diabetes mellitus;
Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding;
Phosphorylation; Polymorphism; Receptor; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMSEVENTEEN
