AC   Q96J66; Q8TDJ0; Q96JA6; Q9BX80;
ATP-binding cassette transporter sub-family C member 11 (Multidrug
resistance-associated protein 8).
"Two new genes from the human ATP-binding cassette transporter
superfamily, ABCC11 and ABCC12, tandemly duplicated on chromosome
16q12.";
"Multiple splicing variants of two new human ATP-binding cassette
transporters, ABCC11 and ABCC12.";
"MRP8, a new member of ABC transporter superfamily, identified by EST
database mining and gene prediction program, is highly expressed in
breast cancer.";
"MRP8, ATP-binding cassette C11 (ABCC11), is a cyclic nucleotide
efflux pump and a resistance factor for fluoropyrimidines 2',3'-
dideoxycytidine and 9'-(2'-phosphonylmethoxyethyl)adenine.";
"Transport of bile acids, sulfated steroids, estradiol 17-beta-D-
glucuronide, and leukotriene C4 by human multidrug resistance protein
8 (ABCC11).";
"A SNP in the ABCC11 gene is the determinant of human earwax type.";
-!- FUNCTION: Participates in physiological processes involving bile
    acids, conjugated steroids and cyclic nucleotides. Enhances the
    cellular extrusion of cAMP and cGMP. Stimulates the ATP-dependent
    uptake of a range of physiological and synthetic lipophilic
    anions, including the glutathione S-conjugates leukotriene C4 and
    dinitrophenyl S-glutathione, steroid sulfates such as
    dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate (DHEAS) and estrone 3-sulfate,
    glucuronides such as estradiol 17-beta-D-glucuronide
    (E(2)17betaG), the monoanionic bile acids glycocholate and
    taurocholate, and methotrexate. Probably functions to secrete
    earwax.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q96J66-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Isoform A;
      IsoId=Q96J66-2; Sequence=VSP_017351;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in many tissues. Not expressed in
    kidney, spleen and colon. Highly expressed in breast cancer.
    Expressed at moderate levels in normal breast and testis and at
    very low levels in liver, brain and placenta.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: The allele with Arg-184 is responsible for the dry
    earwax phenotype [MIM:117800]. Human earwax is a mendelian trait
    consisting of wet and dry types. The wet earwax is brownish and
    sticky, whereas the dry type lacks cerumen. The wet cerumen
    phenotype is completely dominant. The dry type is seen frequently
    (80-95%) among East Asians, but uncommon (0-3%) in populations of
    European and African origins. Intermediate frequencies (30-50%) of
    the dry type are seen in populations of Southern Asia, the Pacific
    Islands, Central Asia and Asia Minor, as well as among the Native
    North American and Inuit of Asian ancestry.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. Conjugate
    transporter (TC 3.A.1.208) subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transmembrane type-1 domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transporter domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Protein Spotlight;
    NOTE=Of earwax and migration - Issue 67 of February 2006;
    URL="http://www.expasy.org/spotlight/back_issues/sptlt067.shtml".
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Nucleotide-binding; Polymorphism; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMELEVEN
