AC   P33897; Q6GTZ2;
ATP-binding cassette sub-family D member 1 (Adrenoleukodystrophy
protein) (ALDP).
"Putative X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy gene shares unexpected
homology with ABC transporters.";
"The DNA sequence of the human X chromosome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Homo- and heterodimerization of peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette
half-transporters.";
"Characterization and functional analysis of the nucleotide binding
fold in human peroxisomal ATP binding cassette transporters.";
"Adrenoleukodystrophy gene: unexpected homology to a protein involved
in peroxisome biogenesis.";
"Human adrenoleukodystrophy protein and related peroxisomal ABC
transporters interact with the peroxisomal assembly protein PEX19p.";
"PEX19 binds multiple peroxisomal membrane proteins, is predominantly
cytoplasmic, and is required for peroxisome membrane synthesis.";
"Mutations in the adrenoleukodystrophy gene.";
"ABCD1 mutations and the X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy mutation
database: role in diagnosis and clinical correlations.";
"Abnormal messenger RNA expression and a missense mutation in patients
with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy.";
"Missense mutations are frequent in the gene for X-chromosomal
adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD).";
"Identification of mutations in the putative ATP-binding domain of the
adrenoleukodystrophy gene.";
"Spectrum of mutations in the gene encoding the adrenoleukodystrophy
protein.";
"Mutations in the gene for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy in patients
with different clinical phenotypes.";
"Mutational analysis of patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy.";
"Mutational and protein analysis of patients and heterozygous women
with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy.";
"Identification of mutations in the ALD-gene of 20 families with
adrenoleukodystrophy/adrenomyeloneuropathy.";
"First missense mutation (W679R) in exon 10 of the
adrenoleukodystrophy gene in siblings with adrenomyeloneuropathy.";
"X-linked adrenomyeloneuropathy associated with 14 novel ALD-gene
mutations: no correlation between type of mutation and age of onset.";
"Two novel missense mutations causing adrenoleukodystrophy in Italian
patients.";
"Determination of 30 X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy mutations,
including 15 not previously described.";
"Detection of mutations in the ALD gene (ABCD1) in seven Italian
families: description of four novel mutations.";
"Eight novel ABCD1 gene mutations and three polymorphisms in patients
with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy: the first polymorphism causing an
amino acid exchange.";
"Characterisation of two mutations in the ABCD1 gene leading to low
levels of normal ALDP.";
"Contiguous deletion of the X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy gene (ABCD1)
and DXS1357E: a novel neonatal phenotype similar to peroxisomal
biogenesis disorders.";
"Identification of seven novel mutations in ABCD1 by a DHPLC-based
assay in Italian patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Probable transporter. The nucleotide-binding fold acts
    as an ATP-binding subunit with ATPase activity.
-!- SUBUNIT: Can form homo- and heterodimers with ABCD2/ALDR and
    ABCD3/PMP70. Dimerization is necessary to form an active
    transporter. Interacts with PEX19.
-!- INTERACTION:
    Self; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-81045, EBI-81045;
    P48410:Abcd1 (xeno); NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-81045, EBI-81118;
    P28288:ABCD3; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-81045, EBI-80992;
    P55096:Abcd3 (xeno); NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-81045, EBI-81160;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Peroxisome; peroxisomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCD1 are the cause of recessive X-linked
    adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) [MIM:300100]. X-ALD is a rare
    peroxisomal metabolic disorder that occurs in boys and is
    characterized by progressive multifocal demyelination of the
    central nervous system and by adrenocortical insufficiency. It
    produces mental deterioration, corticospinal tract dysfunction,
    and cortical blindness. There is laboratory evidence of adrenal
    cortical dysfunction. Different clinical manifestations exist
    like: cerebral childhood ALD (CALD), adult cerebral ALD (ACALD),
    adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) and "Addison disease only" (ADO)
    phenotype.
-!- DISEASE: Microdeletions in ABCD1 are involved in the contiguous
    ABCD1/DXS1375E deletion syndrome (CADDS) [MIM:300475]. Patients
    manifest profound neonatal hypotonia, subsequent failure to
    thrive, and cholestatic liver disease.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. ALD subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transmembrane type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transporter domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=X-ALD gene mutation database;
    URL="http://www.x-ald.nl/".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ABCD1".
 GO:0005779; C:integral to peroxisomal membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0042626; F:ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane m...; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0042802; F:identical protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0005215; F:transporter activity; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015919; P:peroxisomal membrane transport; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007031; P:peroxisome organization and biogenesis; NAS:UniProtKB.
ATP-binding; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Nucleotide-binding; Peroxisome; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFIVE
