AC   P68699; P00844; Q2M855;
ATP synthase C chain (EC 3.6.3.14) (Lipid-binding protein)
(Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide-binding protein).
"Amino acid sequence of the ATPase proteolipid from mitochondria,
chloroplasts and bacteria (wild type and mutants).";
"Nucleotide sequence of genes coding for dicyclohexylcarbodiimide-
binding protein and the alpha subunit of proton-translocating ATPase
of Escherichia coli.";
"The nucleotide sequence of the atp genes coding for the F0 subunits
a, b, c and the F1 subunit delta of the membrane bound ATP synthase of
Escherichia coli.";
"The atp operon: nucleotide sequence of the promoter and the genes for
the membrane proteins, and the delta subunit of Escherichia coli ATP-
synthase.";
"The F1F0-ATPase of Escherichia coli. Substitution of proline by
leucine at position 64 in the c-subunit causes loss of oxidative
phosphorylation.";
"DNA sequence around the Escherichia coli unc operon. Completion of
the sequence of a 17 kilobase segment containing asnA, oriC, unc, glmS
and phoS.";
"Amino acid replacement in dicyclohexylcarbodiimide-reactive proteins
from mutant strains of Escherichia coli defective in the energy-
transducing ATPase complex.";
"Mutations in the uncE gene affecting assembly of the c-subunit of the
adenosine triphosphatase of Escherichia coli.";
"DNA sequence and analysis of 136 kilobases of the Escherichia coli
genome: organizational symmetry around the origin of replication.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Heteronuclear 1H-15N nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the c
subunit of the Escherichia coli F1F0 ATP synthase: assignment and
secondary structure.";
"Determination of local protein structure by spin label difference 2D
NMR: the region neighboring Asp61 of subunit c of the F1F0 ATP
synthase.";
"Solution structure of the transmembrane H+-transporting subunit c of
the F1F0 ATP synthase.";
"Structural changes linked to proton translocation by subunit c of the
ATP synthase.";
"Model of the c-subunit oligomer in the membrane domain of F-
ATPases.";
-!- FUNCTION: This is one of the three chains of the nonenzymatic
    component (CF(0) subunit) of the ATPase complex.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O + H(+)(In) = ADP + phosphate +
    H(+)(Out).
-!- SUBUNIT: F-type ATPases have 2 components, CF(1) - the catalytic
    core - and CF(0) - the membrane proton channel. CF(1) has five
    subunits: alpha(3), beta(3), gamma(1), delta(1), epsilon(1). CF(0)
    has three main subunits: a, b and c.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCDD) binding to the
    active aspartate residue inhibits ATPase in vitro.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The uncE429, uncE408 and uncE463 mutant proteins
    are unable to assemble in the membrane.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ATPase C chain family.
3D-structure; CF(0); Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Formylation; Hydrogen ion transport; Inner membrane; Ion transport;
Lipid-binding; Membrane; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
