AC   Q96247;
Auxin transporter protein 1 (Auxin influx carrier protein 1) (Polar
auxin transport inhibitor-resistant protein 1).
"Arabidopsis AUX1 gene: a permease-like regulator of root
gravitropism.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 2 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Full-length cDNA from Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"The growth and gravitropic responses of wild-type and auxin-resistant
mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"The aux1 mutation of Arabidopsis confers both auxin and ethylene
resistance.";
"Reversible root tip rotation in Arabidopsis seedlings induced by
obstacle-touching stimulus.";
"Ammonium inhibition of Arabidopsis root growth can be reversed by
potassium and by auxin resistance mutations aux1, axr1, and axr2.";
"Responses of Arabidopsis roots to auxin studied with high temporal
resolution: comparison of wild type and auxin-response mutants.";
"The AXR1 and AUX1 genes of Arabidopsis function in separate auxin-
response pathways.";
"Genetic analysis of ethylene signal transduction in Arabidopsis
thaliana: five novel mutant loci integrated into a stress response
pathway.";
"Genetic analysis of the effects of polar auxin transport inhibitors
on root growth in Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Differential effects of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, indole-3-acetic
acid and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid on the gravitropic response of
roots in an auxin-resistant mutant of Arabidopsis, aux1.";
"Auxin and ethylene promote root hair elongation in Arabidopsis.";
"The Arabidopsis AUX1 gene: a model system to study mRNA processing in
plants.";
"AUX1 regulates root gravitropism in Arabidopsis by facilitating auxin
uptake within root apical tissues.";
"Quick on the uptake: characterization of a family of plant auxin
influx carriers.";
"Auxin is a positive regulator for ethylene-mediated response in the
growth of Arabidopsis roots.";
"Localization of the auxin permease AUX1 suggests two functionally
distinct hormone transport pathways operate in the Arabidopsis root
apex.";
"Novel auxin transport inhibitors phenocopy the auxin influx carrier
mutation aux1.";
"Chromosaponin I specifically interacts with AUX1 protein in
regulating the gravitropic response of Arabidopsis roots.";
"Cell polarity signaling in Arabidopsis involves a BFA-sensitive auxin
influx pathway.";
"Auxin and ethylene response interactions during Arabidopsis root hair
development dissected by auxin influx modulators.";
"AUX1 promotes lateral root formation by facilitating indole-3-acetic
acid distribution between sink and source tissues in the Arabidopsis
seedling.";
"Structure-function analysis of the presumptive Arabidopsis auxin
permease AUX1.";
-!- FUNCTION: Carrier protein involved in proton-driven auxin influx.
    Mediates the formation of auxin gradient from developing leaves
    (site of auxin biosynthesis) to tips by contributing to the
    loading of auxin in vascular tissues and facilitating acropetal
    (base to tip) auxin transport within inner tissues of the root
    apex, and basipetal (tip to base) auxin transport within outer
    tissues of the root apex. Unloads auxin from the mature phloem to
    deliver the hormone to the root meristem via the protophloem cell
    files. Coordinated subcellular localization of AUX1 is regulated
    by a brefeldin A-sensitive (BFA) vesicle trafficking process.
    Involved in lateral root formation, trichoblast polarization and
    root hair elongation. Required for gravitropism and thigmotropism,
    especially in roots, by modulating responses to auxin, ethylene
    and cytokinins such as benzyladenine (BA). Needed for ammonium-
    mediated root-growth inhibition. Confers sensitivity to the
    herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, auxin analog),
    and to polar auxin transport inhibitors such as N-1-
    naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid
    (TIBA).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Auxin uptake mediated by AUX1 is inhibited by
    chromosaponin-1 (CSI), 1-naphthoxyacetic acid (1-NOA) and 3-
    chloro-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (CHPAA).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
    Note=In S2 columella cells, a dynamic cytoplasmic to membrane
    localization seems to occur during early stage of gravity signal
    transduction. In roots protophloem cells, asymmetric repartition
    in the upper plasma membrane.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in root and shoot apical tissues. In
    root apex, confined to stele initials, protophloem poles,
    statolith-containing S2 columella cells, lateral root cap cells
    (LRC), and in epidermal cells from the distal elongation zone
    (DEZ) up to central elongation zone (CEZ).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: In seedlings, first expressed in primary
    root, followed by shoot apical meristem and then in lateral roots.
    During lateral root formation, expression in primordia starts at a
    late phase of stage I, before the first periclinal division. In
    later stages II and III, localized in the apical tip, extending to
    the elongation zone, and in the vascular cylinder extending to the
    junction with the primary root.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amino acid/polyamine transporter 2
    family. Amino acid/auxin permease (AAAP) (TC 2.A.18.1.-)
    subfamily.
 GO:0009624; P:response to nematode; IEP:TAIR.
Amino-acid transport; Auxin signaling pathway; Membrane; Symport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMELEVEN
