AC   P31414; O80390; Q41919; Q41920; Q56WP6; Q8RY20; Q8VZE3;
Pyrophosphate-energized vacuolar membrane proton pump 1 (EC 3.6.1.1)
(Pyrophosphate-energized inorganic pyrophosphatase 1) (H(+)-PPase 1)
(Vacuolar proton pyrophosphatase 1) (Vacuolar proton pyrophosphatase
3).
"Molecular cloning and sequence of cDNA encoding the pyrophosphate-
energized vacuolar membrane proton pump of Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Pollen-specific regulation of vacuolar H(+)-PPase expression by
multiple cis-acting elements.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 1 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"An inventory of 1152 expressed sequence tags obtained by partial
sequencing of cDNAs from Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Large-scale analysis of RIKEN Arabidopsis full-length (RAFL) cDNAs.";
"Localization of cytosolically oriented maleimide-reactive domain of
vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase.";
"Heterologous expression of plant vacuolar pyrophosphatase in yeast
demonstrates sufficiency of the substrate-binding subunit for proton
transport.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase. Necessity
of Cys634 for inhibition by maleimides but not catalysis.";
"Acidic residues necessary for pyrophosphate-energized pumping and
inhibition of the vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase by N,N'-
dicyclohexylcarbodiimide.";
"AVP2, a sequence-divergent, K(+)-insensitive H(+)-translocating
inorganic pyrophosphatase from Arabidopsis.";
"Drought- and salt-tolerant plants result from overexpression of the
AVP1 H(+)-pump.";
"Arabidopsis CAMTA family proteins enhance V-PPase expression in
pollen.";
"Isolation of intact vacuoles and proteomic analysis of tonoplast from
suspension-cultured cells of Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Arabidopsis H(+)-PPase AVP1 regulates auxin-mediated organ
development.";
-!- FUNCTION: Contributes to the transtonoplast (from cytosol to
    vacuole lumen) H(+)-electrochemical potential difference. It
    establishes a proton gradient of similar and often greater
    magnitude than the H(+)-ATPase on the same membrane. In addition,
    facilitates auxin transport by modulating apoplastic pH and
    regulates auxin-mediated developmental processes. Confers
    tolerance to NaCl and to drought by increasing ion retention.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Diphosphate + H(2)O = 2 phosphate.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Activated by K(+) and Mg(2+). Inhibited by
    Ca(2+), N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCCD), N-ethylmaleimide
    (NEM) and aminomethylenediphosphonate (AMDP), and, to a lower
    extent, by fluoride (KF).
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=110 uM for PPi (at pH 8 and 37 degrees Celsius);
      Vmax=0.5 umol/min/mg enzyme (at pH 8 and 37 degrees Celsius);
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Vacuole; vacuolar membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein. Endosome; endosomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein. Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
    Note=Mostly vacuolar, tonoplast. Also present in endosomes and
    plasma membrane.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Ubiquitous (at protein level). Mostly
    expressed in vascular tissues, meristems and root pericycle.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Increase of expression in pollen during
    flower development. Expressed in developing leaves, sepals,
    petals, stamens and carpels.
-!- INDUCTION: Repressed by light. Induced by CAMTA1 and/or CAMTA5 in
    pollen.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the H(+)-translocating pyrophosphatase
    (TC 3.A.10) family. Type 1 subfamily.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.5 (CAA79039) sequence differs from that shown due to
    a frameshift in position 718.
Direct protein sequencing; Hydrogen ion transport; Hydrolase;
Ion transport; Magnesium; Membrane; Transmembrane; Transport; Vacuole.
TMTHIRTEEN
