AC   P02730; P78487; Q4VB84;
Band 3 anion transport protein (Anion exchange protein 1) (AE 1)
(Solute carrier family 4 member 1) (CD233 antigen).
"Cloning and characterization of band 3, the human erythrocyte anion-
exchange protein (AE1).";
"The complete amino acid sequence of the human erythrocyte membrane
anion-transport protein deduced from the cDNA sequence.";
"SeattleSNPs. NHLBI HL66682 program for genomic applications, UW-
FHCRC, Seattle, WA (URL: http://pga.gs.washington.edu).";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Primary structure of the cytoplasmic domain of human erythrocyte
protein band 3. Comparison with its sequence in the mouse.";
"Amino acid sequence of the N alpha-terminal 201 residues of human
erythrocyte membrane band 3.";
"Orientation of the band 3 polypeptide from human erythrocyte
membranes. Identification of NH2-terminal sequence and site of
carbohydrate attachment.";
"Anion exchanger 1 in human kidney and oncocytoma differs from
erythroid AE1 in its NH2 terminus.";
"The human erythrocyte anion-transport protein. Partial amino acid
sequence, conformation and a possible molecular mechanism for anion
exchange.";
"Localization of the pyridoxal phosphate binding site at the COOH-
terminal region of erythrocyte band 3 protein.";
"Anion-proton cotransport through the human red blood cell band 3
protein. Role of glutamate 681.";
"Palmitoylation of cysteine 69 from the COOH-terminal of band 3
protein in the human erythrocyte membrane. Acylation occurs in the
middle of the consensus sequence of F--I-IICLAVL found in band 3
protein and G2 protein of Rift Valley fever virus.";
"Sequential phosphorylation of protein band 3 by Syk and Lyn tyrosine
kinases in intact human erythrocytes: identification of primary and
secondary phosphorylation sites.";
"Human erythrocyte band 3 polymorphism (band 3 Memphis):
characterization of the structural modification (Lys 56-->Glu) by
protein chemistry methods.";
"Deletion in erythrocyte band 3 gene in malaria-resistant Southeast
Asian ovalocytosis.";
"Band 3 Tuscaloosa: Pro-327-->Arg substitution in the cytoplasmic
domain of erythrocyte band 3 protein associated with spherocytic
hemolytic anemia and partial deficiency of protein 4.2.";
"Basis of unique red cell membrane properties in hereditary
ovalocytosis.";
"Band 3 HT, a human red-cell variant associated with acanthocytosis
and increased anion transport, carries the mutation Pro-868-->Leu in
the membrane domain of band 3.";
"Human erythrocyte protein 4.2 deficiency associated with hemolytic
anemia and a homozygous 40 glutamic acid-->lysine substitution in the
cytoplasmic domain of band 3 (band 3Montefiore).";
"Band 3 Memphis variant II. Altered stilbene disulfonate binding and
the Diego (Dia) blood group antigen are associated with the human
erythrocyte band 3 mutation Pro-854-->Leu.";
"Changes in the blood group Wright antigens are associated with a
mutation at amino acid 658 in human erythrocyte band 3: a site of
interaction between band 3 and glycophorin A under certain
conditions.";
"Mutations of conserved arginines in the membrane domain of erythroid
band 3 lead to a decrease in membrane-associated band 3 and to the
phenotype of hereditary spherocytosis.";
"Band 3 Chur: a variant associated with band 3-deficient hereditary
spherocytosis and substitution in a highly conserved position of
transmembrane segment 11.";
"Characterization of 13 novel band 3 gene defects in hereditary
spherocytosis with band 3 deficiency.";
"Ankyrin-1 mutations are a major cause of dominant and recessive
hereditary spherocytosis.";
"Modulation of clinical expression and band 3 deficiency in hereditary
spherocytosis.";
"Novel band 3 variants (bands 3 Foggia, Napoli I and Napoli II)
associated with hereditary spherocytosis and band 3 deficiency: status
of the D38A polymorphism within the EPB3 locus.";
"Heterogenous band 3 deficiency in hereditary spherocytosis related to
different band 3 gene defects.";
"Familial distal renal tubular acidosis is associated with mutations
in the red cell anion exchanger (Band 3, AE1) gene.";
"Blood group antigens Rb(a), Tr(a), and Wd(a) are located in the third
ectoplasmic loop of erythroid band 3.";
"Band 3 Tokyo: Thr837-->Ala837 substitution in erythrocyte band 3
protein associated with spherocytic hemolysis.";
"Characterization of seven low incidence blood group antigens carried
by erythrocyte band 3 protein.";
"Novel AE1 mutations in recessive distal renal tubular acidosis: loss-
of-function is rescued by glycophorin A.";
"Mutations in the chloride-bicarbonate exchanger gene AE1 cause
autosomal dominant but not autosomal recessive distal renal tubular
acidosis.";
"A Gly565-->Ala substitution in human erythroid band 3 accounts for
the Wu blood group polymorphism.";
"Band 3 mutations, renal tubular acidosis and South-East Asian
ovalocytosis in Malaysia and Papua New Guinea: loss of up to 95% band
3 transport in red cells.";
"Trafficking and folding defects in hereditary spherocytosis mutants
of the human red cell anion exchanger.";
"Distinctive Swann blood group genotypes: molecular investigations.";
"Band 3 Cape Town (E90K) causes severe hereditary spherocytosis in
combination with band 3 Prague III.";
"Phosphorylation sites in human erythrocyte band 3 protein.";
"Two-dimensional structure of the membrane domain of human band 3, the
anion transport protein of the erythrocyte membrane.";
"Three-dimensional map of the dimeric membrane domain of the human
erythrocyte anion exchanger, Band 3.";
"Solution structure of a band 3 peptide inhibitor bound to aldolase: a
proposed mechanism for regulating binding by tyrosine
phosphorylation.";
"Insights into tyrosine phosphorylation control of protein-protein
association from the NMR structure of a band 3 peptide inhibitor bound
to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.";
"Studies on the structure of a transmembrane region and a cytoplasmic
loop of the human red cell anion exchanger.";
"The solution structures of the first and second transmembrane-
spanning segments of band 3.";
"NMR solution structure of a cytoplasmic surface loop of the human red
cell anion transporter, band 3.";
-!- FUNCTION: Band 3 is the major integral glycoprotein of the
    erythrocyte membrane. Band 3 has two functional domains. Its
    integral domain mediates a 1:1 exchange of inorganic anions across
    the membrane, whereas its cytoplasmic domain provides binding
    sites for cytoskeletal proteins, glycolytic enzymes, and
    hemoglobin.
-!- SUBUNIT: A dimer in solution, it spans the membrane asymmetrically
    and appears to be tetrameric.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Erythrocytes.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on Tyr-8 and Tyr-21 most likely by SYK. PP1-
    resistant phosphorylation that precedes Tyr-359 and Tyr-904
    phosphorylation.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on Tyr-359 and Tyr-904 most likely by LYN.
    PP1-inhibited phosphorylation that follows Tyr-8 and Tyr-21
    phosphorylation.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: SLC4A1 is responsible for the Diego blood group
    system. The molecular basis of the Di(a)=Di1/Di(b)/Di2 blood group
    antigens is a single variation in position 854; Leu-854
    corresponds to Di(a) and Pro-854 to Di(b). The molecular basis of
    the Wr(a)=Di3/Wr(b)/Di4 blood group antigens is a single variation
    in position 658; Lys-658 corresponds to Wr(a) and Glu-658 to
    Wr(b). The blood group antigens Wd(a)=Di5 (Waldner-type) has Met-
    557; Rb(a)=Di6 has Leu-548 and WARR=Di7 has Ile-552.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC4A1 are the cause of elliptocytosis 4 (EL4)
    [MIM:109270]. Elliptocytosis (also known as ovalocytosis) is a
    genetically heterogeneous, autosomal dominant hematologic
    disorder. It is characterized by variable hemolytic anemia and
    elliptical or oval red cell shape. Several abnormalities in the
    membrane skeleton have been identified, including a number that
    have been localized to spectrin. Elliptocytosis due to defects in
    SLC4A1 is also referred to as rhesus-unlinked elliptocytosis
    [MIM:130600].
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC4A1 are a cause of hereditary spherocytosis
    (HS) [MIM:109270]. HS is a hematologic disorder leading to chronic
    hemolytic anemia and characterized by numerous abnormally shaped
    erythrocytes which are generally spheroidal.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC4A1 are a cause of familial distal renal
    tubular acidosis (dRTA) [MIM:179800]. This disease is
    characterized by reduced ability to acidify urine, variable
    hyperchloremic hypokalemic metabolic acidosis, nephrocalcinosis,
    and nephrolithiasis. Inheritance is generally autosomal dominant,
    but recessive forms have also been reported.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Phenyl isothiocyanate inhibits anion transport in
    vitro.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the anion exchanger (TC 2.A.31) family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=BGMUT;
    NOTE=Blood group antigen gene mutation database";
    URL="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/mhc/xslcgi.fcgi?cmd=bgmut/systems_info&system=diego".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SLC4A1".
 GO:0030863; C:cortical cytoskeleton; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015380; F:anion exchanger activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008509; F:anion transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006820; P:anion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006873; P:cell ion homeostasis; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Acetylation; Anion exchange; Blood group antigen;
Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation; Elliptocytosis;
Glycoprotein; Hereditary hemolytic anemia; Ion transport; Lipoprotein;
Membrane; Palmitate; Phosphorylation; Polymorphism; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWELVE
