AC   P02945; Q9HPU5;
Bacteriorhodopsin precursor (BR).
"The bacteriorhodopsin gene.";
"Studies on the light-transducing pigment bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Bacterioopsin, haloopsin, and sensory opsin I of the halobacterial
isolate Halobacterium sp. strain SG1: three new members of a growing
family.";
"Bacteriorhodopsin precursor. Characterization and its integration
into the purple membrane.";
"Genome sequence of Halobacterium species NRC-1.";
"The amino acid sequence of bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Amino acid sequence of bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Mass spectrometric analysis of integral membrane proteins:
application to complete mapping of bacteriorhodopsins and rhodopsin.";
"Attachment site(s) of retinal in bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry of intact intrinsic
membrane proteins.";
"Bicelle crystallization: a new method for crystallizing membrane
proteins yields a monomeric bacteriorhodopsin structure.";
"Tertiary structure of bacteriorhodopsin. Positions and orientations
of helices A and B in the structural map determined by neutron
diffraction.";
"Model for the structure of bacteriorhodopsin based on high-resolution
electron cryo-microscopy.";
"Electron-crystallographic refinement of the structure of
bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Three-dimensional structure of proteolytic fragment 163-231 of
bacterioopsin determined from nuclear magnetic resonance data in
solution.";
"1H-15N-NMR studies of bacteriorhodopsin Halobacterium halobium.
Conformational dynamics of the four-helical bundle.";
"Surface of bacteriorhodopsin revealed by high-resolution electron
crystallography.";
"X-ray structure of bacteriorhodopsin at 2.5-A from microcrystals
grown in lipidic cubic phases.";
"Lipid patches in membrane protein oligomers: crystal structure of the
bacteriorhodopsin-lipid complex.";
"Proton transfer pathways in bacteriorhodopsin at 2.3 Angstrom
resolution.";
"Structure of bacteriorhodopsin at 1.55-A resolution.";
"High-resolution X-ray structure of an early intermediate in the
bacteriorhodopsin photocycle.";
"Protein, lipid and water organization in bacteriorhodopsin crystals:
a molecular view of the purple membrane at 1.9 A resolution.";
"Coupling photoisomerization of retinal to directional transport in
bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Helix deformation is coupled to vectorial proton transport in the
photocycle of bacteriorhodopsin.";
"Molecular mechanism of vectorial proton translocation by
bacteriorhodopsin.";
-!- FUNCTION: Light-driven proton pump.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotrimer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=27052.5; MW_ERR=2.7; METHOD=Electrospray;
    RANGE=14-261; NOTE=Ref.10.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the archaeal/bacterial/fungal opsin family.
3D-structure; Chromophore; Complete proteome;
Direct protein sequencing; Hydrogen ion transport; Ion transport;
Membrane; Photoreceptor protein; Pyrrolidone carboxylic acid;
Receptor; Retinal protein; Sensory transduction; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMSEVEN
