AC   Q92736; Q15411; Q546N8;
Ryanodine receptor 2 (Cardiac muscle-type ryanodine receptor) (RyR2)
(RYR-2) (Cardiac muscle ryanodine receptor-calcium release channel)
(hRYR-2).
"The human cardiac muscle ryanodine receptor-calcium release channel:
identification, primary structure and topological analysis.";
"Identification of mutations in the cardiac ryanodine receptor gene in
families affected with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy
type 2 (ARVD2).";
"Differential expression of ryanodine receptor RyR2 mRNA in the non-
pregnant and pregnant human myometrium.";
"Partial cloning and differential expression of ryanodine
receptor/calcium-release channel genes in human tissues including the
hippocampus and cerebellum.";
"Mutations in the cardiac ryanodine receptor gene (hRyR2) underlie
catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.";
"Mutations of the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) gene in familial
polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.";
"Molecular genetics of exercise-induced polymorphic ventricular
tachycardia: identification of three novel cardiac ryanodine receptor
mutations and two common calsequestrin 2 amino-acid polymorphisms.";
-!- FUNCTION: Communication between transverse-tubules and
    sarcoplasmic reticulum. Contraction of cardiac muscle is triggered
    by release of calcium ions from SR following depolarization of T-
    tubules (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer (Potential).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q92736-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q92736-2; Sequence=VSP_005953;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Heart muscle, brain (cerebellum and
    hippocampus) and placenta.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed in myometrium during pregnancy.
-!- INDUCTION: By TGF-beta.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in RYR2 are the cause of familial arrhythmogenic
    right ventricular dysplasia 2 (ARVD2) [MIM:600996]; also known as
    arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy 2 (ARVC2). ARVD is
    an autosomal dominant disease characterized by partial
    degeneration of the myocardium of the right ventricle, electrical
    instability, and sudden death. It is clinically defined by
    electrocardiographic and angiographic criteria; pathologic
    findings, replacement of ventricular myocardium with fatty and
    fibrous elements, preferentially involve the right ventricular
    free wall.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in RYR2 are the cause of an autosomal dominant
    form of stress-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VTSIP)
    [MIM:604772]; also known as catecholaminergic polymorphic
    ventricular tachycardia (CPVT). VTSIP is a genetic arrhythmogenic
    disorder characterized by stress-induced, bidirectional
    ventricular tachycardia that may degenerate into cardiac arrest
    and cause sudden death.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in RYR2 are a cause of familial polymorphic
    ventricular tachycardia (FPVT) [MIM:192605]. FPVT is an autosomal-
    dominant, inherited disease with a relatively early onset and a
    mortality rate of approximately 30% by the age of 30 years.
    Phenotypically, it is characterized by salvoes of bidirectional
    and polymorphic ventricular tachycardias in response to vigorous
    exercise, with no structural evidence of myocardial disease.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The calcium release channel is modulated by calcium
    ions, magnesium ions, ATP and calmodulin.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The calcium release channel activity resides in the
    C-terminal region while the remaining part of the protein
    constitutes the 'foot' structure spanning the junctional gap
    between the SR and the T-tubule. It is possible that the foot
    structure interacts with the cytoplasmic region of the
    dihydropyridine receptor.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Ryanodine is an alkaloid that binds to the Ca-
    release channel in junctional SR and modulates its activity.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ryanodine receptor family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 B30.2/SPRY domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 EF-hand domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 5 MIR domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=RYR2".
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015278; F:calcium-release channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006936; P:muscle contraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008016; P:regulation of heart contraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007165; P:signal transduction; NAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Calcium channel; Calcium transport;
Calmodulin-binding; Cardiomyopathy; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Polymorphism;
Receptor; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
