AC   Q9NRA2; Q8NBR5; Q9UGH0;
Sialin (Solute carrier family 17 member 5) (Sodium/sialic acid
cotransporter) (AST) (Membrane glycoprotein HP59).
"Identification of a novel membrane protein, HP59, with therapeutic
potential as a target of tumor angiogenesis.";
"A new gene, encoding an anion transporter, is mutated in sialic acid
storage diseases.";
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"The spectrum of SLC17A5-gene mutations resulting in free sialic acid-
storage diseases indicates some genotype-phenotype correlation.";
"Sialic acid storage disease of the Salla phenotype in American
monozygous twin female sibs.";
-!- FUNCTION: Primary solute translocator for anionic substances;
    particularly it is a free sialic acid transporter in the lysosomes
    (Probable).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Lysosome; lysosomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein (Potential).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q9NRA2-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q9NRA2-2; Sequence=VSP_010482, VSP_010483;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Found in fetal lung and small intestine, and
    at lower level in fetal skin and muscle. In the adult, detected in
    placenta, kidney and pancreas. Abundant in the endothelial cells
    of tumors from ovary, colon, breast and lung, but is not detected
    in endothelial cells from the corresponding normal tissues.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC17A5 are the cause of Salla disease (SD)
    [MIM:604369]; also known as Finnish type sialuria, a sialic acid
    storage disease (SASD). SASDs are autosomal recessive
    neurodegenerative disorders characterized by hypotonia, cerebellar
    ataxia and mental retardation. They are caused by a defect in the
    metabolism of sialic acid which results in increased urinary
    excretion of unconjugated sialic acid, specifically N-
    acetylneuraminic acid. Enlarged lysosomes are seen on electron
    microscopic studies. Clinical symptoms of SD present usually at
    age less than 1 year and progression is slow.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC17A5 are the cause of infantile sialic acid
    storage disorder (ISSD) [MIM:269920]; also known as N-
    acetylneuraminic acid storage disease (NSD). ISSD is a severe form
    of sialic acid storage disease. Affected newborns exhibit
    visceromegaly, coarse features and failure to thrive immediately
    after birth. These patients have a shortened life span, usually
    less than 2 years.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily.
    Sodium/anion cotransporter family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SLC17A5".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005765; C:lysosomal membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005403; F:hydrogen:sugar symporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006820; P:anion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Disease mutation; Lysosome; Membrane; Symport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
