AC   Q63633;
Solute carrier family 12 member 5 (Electroneutral potassium-chloride
cotransporter 2) (K-Cl cotransporter 2) (Neuronal K-Cl cotransporter)
(Furosemide-sensitive K-Cl cotransporter) (rKCC2).
"Molecular characterization of a putative K-Cl cotransporter in rat
brain. A neuronal-specific isoform.";
"The K+/Cl- co-transporter KCC2 renders GABA hyperpolarizing during
neuronal maturation.";
"A dominant negative mutant of the KCC1 K-Cl cotransporter: both N-
and C-terminal cytoplasmic domains are required for K-Cl cotransport
activity.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates electroneutral potassium-chloride cotransport
    in mature neurons. Transport occurs under isotonic conditions, but
    is activated 20-fold by cell swelling. Important for Cl(-)
    homeostasis in neurons. Necessary for the ontogenic change in
    response to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) from depolarization to
    hyperpolarization during neuronal development.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homomultimer and heteromultimer with other K-Cl
    cotransporters (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in brain. Not detected in
    other tissues. Highly expressed in pyramidal neurons and in
    neurons throughout the cortex, hippocampus, the granular layer of
    the cerebellum and in groups of neurons throughout the brainstem.
    Barely detectable in dorsal-root ganglions.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Detected in thalamus, but not in hippocampus
    and neocortex at E20. At birth barely detectable in hippocampus.
    Expression increases steeply from day 5 to day 9 and then
    stabilizes at adult levels.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the SLC12A transporter family.
 GO:0016021; C:integral to membrane; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015379; F:potassium:chloride symporter activity; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0006873; P:cell ion homeostasis; ISS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006821; P:chloride transport; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; ISS:UniProtKB.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Membrane; Potassium; Potassium transport;
Symport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
