AC   P50443;
Sulfate transporter (Diastrophic dysplasia protein) (Solute carrier
family 26 member 2).
"The diastrophic dysplasia gene encodes a novel sulfate transporter:
positional cloning by fine-structure linkage disequilibrium mapping.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Achondrogenesis type IB is caused by mutations in the diastrophic
dysplasia sulphate transporter gene.";
"Atelosteogenesis type II is caused by mutations in the diastrophic
dysplasia sulfate-transporter gene (DTDST): evidence for a phenotypic
series involving three chondrodysplasias.";
"Homozygosity for a novel DTDST mutation in a child with a 'broad
bone-platyspondylic' variant of diastrophic dysplasia.";
"Autosomal recessive multiple epiphyseal dysplasia with homozygosity
for C653S in the DTDST gene: double-layer patella as a reliable
sign.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sulfate transporter. May play a role in endochondral
    bone formation.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Ubiquitously expressed.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC26A2 are the cause of diastrophic dysplasia
    (DTD) [MIM:222600]. DTD is an autosomal recessive disease
    characterized by osteochondrodysplasia with clinical features
    including dwarfism, spinal deformation, and specific joint
    abnormalities.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC26A2 are the cause of achondrogenesis type
    IB (ACG-IB) [MIM:600972]. ACG-IB is a recessively inherited
    chondrodysplasia characterized by extremely poor skeletal
    development and perinatal death.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC26A2 are the cause of atelosteogenesis type
    II (AO-II) [MIM:256050]; also known as neonatal osseous dysplasia
    I. AO-II is characterized by severely shortened limbs, small
    chest, scoliosis, club foot of the equinovarus type (talipes
    equinovarus), abducted thumbs and great toes, and cleft palate.
    Patients die of respiratory insufficiency shortly after birth
    because of the collapse of the airways and pulmonary hypoplasia
    due to the small rib cage.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC26A2 are the cause of multiple epiphyseal
    dysplasia 4 (EDM4) [MIM:226900]. EDM is a generalized skeletal
    dysplasia associated with significant morbidity. Joint pain, joint
    deformity, waddling gait, and short stature are the main clinical
    signs and symptoms. EDM is broadly categorized into the more
    severe Fairbank and the milder Ribbing types. EDM4 is a
    recessively inherited form, characterized by early childhood-onset
    hip dysplasia and recurrent patella dislocation. Short stature in
    EDM4 patients is not frequent.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the SLC26A/SulP transporter (TC 2.A.53)
    family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 STAS domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SLC26A2".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015116; F:sulfate transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008272; P:sulfate transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Disease mutation; Dwarfism; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Polymorphism;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
