AC   Q99NH7;
Prestin (Solute carrier family 26 member 5).
"Expression of prestin, a membrane motor protein, in the mammalian
auditory and vestibular periphery.";
-!- FUNCTION: Motor protein that converts auditory stimuli to length
    changes in outer hair cells and mediates sound amplification in
    the mammalian hearing organ. Prestin is a bidirectional voltage-
    to-force converter, it can operate at microsecond rates. It uses
    cytoplasmic anions as extrinsic voltage sensors, probably chloride
    and bicarbonate. After binding to a site with millimolar affinity,
    these anions are translocated across the membrane in response to
    changes in the transmembrane voltage. They move towards the
    extracellular surface following hyperpolarization, and towards the
    cytoplasmic side in response to depolarization. As a consequence,
    this translocation triggers conformational changes in the protein
    that ultimately alter its surface area in the plane of the plasma
    membrane. The area decreases when the anion is near the
    cytoplasmic face of the membrane (short state), and increases when
    the ion has crossed the membrane to the outer surface (long
    state). So, it acts as an incomplete transporter. It swings anions
    across the membrane, but does not allow these anions to dissociate
    and escape to the extracellular space. Salicylate, an inhibitor of
    outer hair cell motility, acts as competitive antagonist at the
    prestin anion-binding site (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (By similarity). Note=Lateral wall of outer hair cells (By
    similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the SLC26A/SulP transporter (TC 2.A.53)
    family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 STAS domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Protein Spotlight;
    NOTE=Pump up the volume - Issue 22 of May 2002;
    URL="http://www.expasy.org/spotlight/back_issues/sptlt022.shtml".
 GO:0016323; C:basolateral plasma membrane; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0042391; P:regulation of membrane potential; IDA:MGI.
Cell shape; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Motor protein; Transmembrane.
TMTWELVE
