AC   Q91VE0; O88562;
Long-chain fatty acid transport protein 4 (EC 6.2.1.-) (Fatty acid
transport protein 4) (FATP-4) (Solute carrier family 27 member 4).
"Mouse fatty acid transport protein 4 (FATP4): characterization of the
gene and functional assessment as a very long chain acyl-CoA
synthetase.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"Cloning of mouse full open reading frames in Gateway(R) system entry
vector (pDONR201).";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"A family of fatty acid transporters conserved from mycobacterium to
man.";
"Identification of the major intestinal fatty acid transport
protein.";
"Targeted deletion of fatty acid transport protein-4 results in early
embryonic lethality.";
"Mice with targeted disruption of the fatty acid transport protein 4
(Fatp 4, Slc27a4) gene show features of lethal restrictive
dermopathy.";
"Cloning of wrinkle-free, a previously uncharacterized mouse mutation,
reveals crucial roles for fatty acid transport protein 4 in skin and
hair development.";
"Enzymatic properties of purified murine fatty acid transport protein
4 and analysis of acyl-CoA synthetase activities in tissues from FATP4
null mice.";
"Comparative biochemical studies of the murine fatty acid transport
proteins (FATP) expressed in yeast.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in translocation of long-chain fatty acids
    (LFCA) across the plasma membrane. Appears to be the principal
    fatty acid transporter in small intestinal enterocytes. Plays a
    role in the formation of the epidermal barrier. Required for fat
    absorption in early embryogenesis. Has acyl-CoA ligase activity
    for long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Most abundantly expressed in small intestine,
    brain, kidney, liver, skin and heart. In small intestine,
    expressed at high levels on the apical side of mature enterocytes.
    Highly expressed by the epithelial cells of the visceral endoderm
    and localized to the brush-border membrane of extraembryonic
    endodermal cells (at protein level).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in Slc27a4 are the cause of wrinkle-free (wrfr)
    phenotype. It is a spontaneous, autosomal recessive mutation
    resulting in very tight, thick skin and is secondary characterized
    by severe breathing difficulties. Mice die shortly after birth.
    This phenotype is similar to human restrictive dermopathy, a very
    rare human genetic disorder.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Slc27a4 deficient mice display features of a
    neonatally lethal restrictive dermopathy. Their skin is
    characterized by hyperproliferative hyperkeratosis with a
    disturbed epidermal barrier, a flat dermal-epidermal junction, a
    reduced number of pilo-sebaceous structures, and a compact dermis.
    The rigid skin consistency results in an altered body shape with
    facial dysmorphia, generalized joint flexion contractures and
    impaired movement including suckling and breathing deficiencies.
    Lipid analysis demonstrates a disturbed fatty acid composition of
    epidermal ceramides, in particular a decrease in the C26:0 and
    C26:0-OH fatty acid substitutes.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Deletion of Slc27a4 results in embryonic lethality,
    which has been attributed to a requirement for fat absorption
    early in embryonic development across the visceral endoderm.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ATP-dependent AMP-binding enzyme
    family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.5 (AAC40188) sequence differs from that shown due
    several frameshifts.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.5 (AAC40188) sequence differs from that shown due a
    N-terminal sequence of unknown origin.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0004467; F:long-chain-fatty-acid-CoA ligase activity; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0001676; P:long-chain fatty acid metabolism; TAS:MGI.
Fatty acid metabolism; Ligase; Lipid metabolism; Lipid transport;
Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
