AC   O76082; Q6ZQZ8; Q96EH6;
Organic cation/carnitine transporter 2 (Solute carrier family 22
member 5) (High-affinity sodium-dependent carnitine cotransporter).
"cDNA sequence, transport function, and genomic organization of human
OCTN2, a new member of the organic cation transporter family.";
"Molecular and functional identification of sodium ion-dependent, high
affinity human carnitine transporter OCTN2.";
"Primary systemic carnitine deficiency is caused by mutations in a
gene encoding sodium ion-dependent carnitine transporter.";
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Functional characteristics and tissue distribution pattern of organic
cation transporter 2 (OCTN2), an organic cation/carnitine
transporter.";
"Carnitine transporter OCTN2 mutations in systemic primary carnitine
deficiency: a novel Arg169Gln mutation and a recurrent Arg282ter
mutation associated with an unconventional splicing abnormality.";
"Identification of two novel mutations in OCTN2 of three patients with
systemic carnitine deficiency.";
"Mutations of OCTN2, an organic cation/carnitine transporter, lead to
deficient cellular carnitine uptake in primary carnitine deficiency.";
"Genetic epidemiology of the carnitine transporter OCTN2 gene in a
Japanese population and phenotypic characterization in Japanese
pedigrees with primary systemic carnitine deficiency.";
"Mutations in novel organic cation transporter (OCTN2), an organic
cation/carnitine transporter, with differential effects on the organic
cation transport function and the carnitine transport function.";
"Two novel missense mutations of the OCTN2 gene (W283R and V446F) in a
patient with primary systemic carnitine deficiency.";
"A missense mutation in the OCTN2 gene associated with residual
carnitine transport activity.";
"Functional variants of OCTN cation transporter genes are associated
with Crohn disease.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sodium-ion dependent, high affinity carnitine
    transporter. Involved in the active cellular uptake of carnitine.
    Transports one sodium ion with one molecule of carnitine. Also
    transports organic cations such as tetraethylammonium (TEA)
    without the involvement of sodium. Also Relative uptake activity
    ratio of carnitine to TEA is 11.3.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with PDZK1 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=O76082-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=O76082-2; Sequence=VSP_011120, VSP_011121;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Strongly expressed in kidney, skeletal muscle,
    heart and placenta. Highly expressed in intestinal cell types
    affected by Crohn disease, including epithelial cells. Expressed
    in CD68 macrophage and CD43 T-cells but not in CD20 B-cells.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC22A5 are the cause of systemic primary
    carnitine deficiency (CDSP) [MIM:212140]. CDSP is an autosomal
    recessive disorder of fatty acid oxidation caused by defective
    carnitine transport. Present early in life with hypoketotic
    hypoglycemia and acute metabolic decompensation, or later in life
    with skeletal myopathy or cardiomyopathy.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC22A5 may be a cause of susceptibility to
    Crohn disease (CD) [MIM:266600]. CD is a form of remitting
    inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). CD may involve any part of the
    gastrointestinal tract, but most frequently the terminal ileum and
    colon. Bowel inflammation is transmural and discontinuous. CD is
    commonly classified as an autoimmune disease.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Inhibited by emetine, quinidine and verapamil. The
    IC(50) of emetine is 4.2 uM. Not inhibited by valproic acid.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Organic
    cation transporter family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SLC22A5".
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015226; F:carnitine transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015879; P:carnitine transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein;
Ion transport; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Polymorphism; Sodium;
Sodium transport; Symport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
