AC   Q9H015; O14546;
Organic cation/carnitine transporter 1 (Solute carrier family 22
member 4) (Ergothioneine transporter) (ET transporter).
"Cloning and characterization of a novel human pH-dependent organic
cation transporter, OCTN1.";
"Discovery of the ergothioneine transporter.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Novel membrane transporter OCTN1 mediates multispecific,
bidirectional, and pH-dependent transport of organic cations.";
"An intronic SNP in a RUNX1 binding site of SLC22A4, encoding an
organic cation transporter, is associated with rheumatoid arthritis.";
"Catalog of 238 variations among six human genes encoding solute
carriers (hSLCs) in the Japanese population.";
"Functional characterization of human organic cation transporter OCTN1
single nucleotide polymorphisms in the Japanese population.";
"Functional variants of OCTN cation transporter genes are associated
with Crohn disease.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sodium-ion dependent, low affinity carnitine
    transporter. Probably transports one sodium ion with one molecule
    of carnitine. Also transports organic cations such as
    tetraethylammonium (TEA) without the involvement of sodium.
    Relative uptake activity ratio of carnitine to TEA is 1.78. A key
    substrate of this transporter seems to be ergothioneine (ET).
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=0.470 mM for TEA (at 37 degrees Celsius and pH 7.4);
      Vmax=0.974 nmol/min/mg enzyme toward TEA (at 37 degrees Celsius
      and pH 7.4);
    pH dependence:
      More active at neutral and alkaline pHs than at acidic pHs;
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with PDZK1 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed. Highly expressed in whole
    blood, bone marrow, trachea and fetal liver. Weakly expressed in
    kidney, skeletal muscle, prostate, lung, pancreas, placenta,
    heart, uterus, spleen and spinal cord. Highly expressed in
    intestinal cell types affected by Crohn disease, including
    epithelial cells. Expressed in CD68 macrophage and CD43 T-cells
    but not in CD20 B-cells. Predominantly expressed in CD14 cells in
    peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
-!- INDUCTION: Overexpressed upon TNF-alpha treatment.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC22A4 may be a cause of susceptibility to
    Crohn disease (CD) [MIM:266600]. CD is a form of remitting
    inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). CD may involve any part of the
    gastrointestinal tract, but most frequently the terminal ileum and
    colon. Bowel inflammation is transmural and discontinuous. CD is
    commonly classified as an autoimmune disease.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC22A4 may be a cause of rheumatoid arthritis
    (RA).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Organic
    cation transporter family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 reported that this protein does not transport
    carnitine, however, experiments were done with the Phe-503
    variant, which affects the ability to transport carnitine. Ref.7
    showed that, although weakly, it can also transport carnitine at
    some level. Its function in carnitine transport is therefore
    unclear.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0000166; F:nucleotide binding; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008513; F:organic cation porter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007589; P:fluid secretion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015695; P:organic cation transport; TAS:ProtInc.
ATP-binding; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Membrane;
Nucleotide-binding; Polymorphism; Sodium; Sodium transport; Symport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
