AC   P23645; Q9VL53;
Neurogenic protein big brain.
"Similarity of the product of the Drosophila neurogenic gene big brain
to transmembrane channel proteins.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"A Drosophila full-length cDNA resource.";
"The big brain gene of Drosophila functions to control the number of
neuronal precursors in the peripheral nervous system.";
"The Drosophila neurogenic gene big brain, which encodes a membrane-
associated protein, acts cell autonomously and can act synergistically
with Notch and Delta.";
"Regulated cationic channel function in Xenopus oocytes expressing
Drosophila big brain.";
"Block by extracellular divalent cations of Drosophila big brain
channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes.";
-!- FUNCTION: Essential for proper differentiation of ectoderm. Acts
    synergistically with neurogenic locus proteins Notch and Delta
    during the separation of neural and epidermal cell lineages in
    response to the lateral inhibition signal. Voltage-insensitive
    monovalent cation channel. Ion transport is blocked by the
    presence of divalent cations.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Detected in all tissues with neurogenic
    abilities, for example the neurogenic ectoderm.
-!- DOMAIN: Aquaporins contain two tandem repeats each containing
    three membrane-spanning domains and a pore-forming loop with the
    signature motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated at its C-terminus.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Separation of neuroblasts from the ectoderm into
    the inner part of embryo is one of the first steps of CNS
    development in insects, this process is under control of the
    neurogenic genes. Mutation in bib gene underlies "big brain"
    development defect.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the MIP/aquaporin (TC 1.A.8) family.
 GO:0015281; F:nonselective cation channel activity; IDA:FlyBase.
 GO:0007398; P:ectoderm development; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0007498; P:mesoderm development; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0007399; P:nervous system development; NAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0007219; P:Notch signaling pathway; NAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0030707; P:ovarian follicle cell development (sensu In...; TAS:FlyBase.
Complete proteome; Developmental protein; Differentiation;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Neurogenesis; Phosphorylation;
Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
