AC   P31645;
Sodium-dependent serotonin transporter (5HT transporter) (5HTT).
"Isolation of a cDNA encoding the human brain serotonin transporter.";
"Antidepressant- and cocaine-sensitive human serotonin transporter:
molecular cloning, expression, and chromosomal localization.";
"Primary structure of the human platelet serotonin uptake site:
identity with the brain serotonin transporter.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Characterization of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in coding regions
of human genes.";
"Serotonin transporter missense mutation associated with a complex
neuropsychiatric phenotype.";
"A human serotonin transporter mutation causes constitutive activation
of transport activity.";
"Influence of life stress on depression: moderation by a polymorphism
in the 5-HTT gene.";
-!- FUNCTION: Terminates the action of serotonin by its high affinity
    sodium-dependent reuptake into presynaptic terminals.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: A polymorphism in the promoter region (5-HTT gene-
    linked polymorphic region, 5-HTTLPR) is located approximately 1 kb
    upstream of the transcription initiation site and is composed of
    16 repeat elements. The polymorphism consists of a 44-bp insertion
    or deletion involving repeat elements 6 to 8. The short allele is
    associated with lower transcriptional efficiency of the promoter
    compared with the long allele. Over half of the Caucasian
    population has a short allele. Individuals with one or two copies
    of the short allele exhibit more depressive symptoms, diagnosable
    depression and suicidality in relation to stressful life events
    than individuals homozygous for the long allele.
-!- POLYMORPHISM: The polymorphism Val-425 seems to be linked to a
    susceptibility to obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
    [MIM:164230].
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: This protein is the target of psychomotor
    stimulants such as amphetamines or cocaine.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter (SNF)
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SLC6A4".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=SHMPD;
    NOTE=The Singapore human mutation and polymorphism database;
    URL="http://shmpd.bii.a-star.edu.sg/gene.php?genestart=A&genename=SLC6A4".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008504; F:monoamine transporter activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015222; F:serotonin transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015844; P:monoamine transport; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0001504; P:neurotransmitter uptake; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006837; P:serotonin transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Neurotransmitter transport; Polymorphism;
Symport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
