AC   P51168; O60891; Q96KG2; Q9UJ32; Q9UMU5;
Amiloride-sensitive sodium channel subunit beta (Epithelial Na+
channel subunit beta) (Beta ENaC) (Nonvoltage-gated sodium channel 1
subunit beta) (SCNEB) (Beta NaCH) (ENaCB).
"Cloning, chromosomal localization, and physical linkage of the beta
and gamma subunits (SCNN1B and SCNN1G) of the human epithelial
amiloride-sensitive sodium channel.";
"Cloning and expression of the beta- and gamma-subunits of the human
epithelial sodium channel.";
"Gene structure of the human amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium
channel beta subunit.";
"Novel mutations responsible for autosomal recessive multisystem
pseudohypoaldosteronism and sequence variants in epithelial sodium
channel alpha-, beta-, and gamma-subunit genes.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Genome duplications and other features in 12 Mb of DNA sequence from
human chromosome 16p and 16q.";
"Separate promoters of the human epithelial sodium channel beta
subunit direct expression of alternate transcripts that encode N-
terminal protein variants.";
"Liddle's syndrome: heritable human hypertension caused by mutations
in the beta subunit of the epithelial sodium channel.";
"Identification of novel human WW domain-containing proteins by
cloning of ligand targets.";
"The Nedd4-like protein KIAA0439 is a potential regulator of the
epithelial sodium channel.";
"Ubiquitin-protein ligase WWP2 binds to and downregulates the
epithelial Na(+) channel.";
"Hypertension caused by a truncated epithelial sodium channel gamma
subunit: genetic heterogeneity of Liddle syndrome.";
"A de novo missense mutation of the beta subunit of the epithelial
sodium channel causes hypertension and Liddle syndrome, identifying a
proline-rich segment critical for regulation of channel activity.";
"Liddle disease caused by a missense mutation of beta subunit of the
epithelial sodium channel gene.";
"Mutations in subunits of the epithelial sodium channel cause salt
wasting with hyperkalaemic acidosis, pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1.";
"Genetic analysis of the beta subunit of the epithelial Na+ channel in
essential hypertension.";
"A family with Liddle's syndrome caused by a new missense mutation in
the beta subunit of the epithelial sodium channel.";
"Genetic analysis of the epithelial sodium channel in Liddle's
syndrome.";
"Polymorphisms of amiloride-sensitive sodium channel subunits in five
sporadic cases of pseudohypoaldosteronism: do they have pathologic
potential?";
"A new mutation, R563Q, of the beta subunit of the epithelial sodium
channel associated with low-renin, low-aldosterone hypertension.";
"Novel mutations in epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunit genes and
phenotypic expression of multisystem pseudohypoaldosteronism.";
"Liddle's syndrome caused by a novel mutation in the proline-rich PY
motif of the epithelial sodium channel beta-subunit.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sodium permeable non-voltage-sensitive ion channel
    inhibited by the diuretic amiloride. Mediates the electrodiffusion
    of the luminal sodium (and water, which follows osmotically)
    through the apical membrane of epithelial cells. Controls the
    reabsorption of sodium in kidney, colon, lung and sweat glands.
    Also plays a role in taste perception.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of two alpha, one beta and one gamma
    subunit. A delta subunit can replace the alpha subunit. Interacts
    with the WW domains of NEDD4, NEDD4L, WWP1 and WWP2.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; multi-
    pass membrane protein. Note=Apical membrane of epithelial cells.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=P51168-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=P51168-2; Sequence=VSP_007724;
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on serine and threonine residues (By
    similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SCNN1B are a cause of autosomal recessive
    pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1) [MIM:264350]. PHA1 is a rare
    salt wasting disease resulting from target organ unresponsiveness
    to mineralocorticoids. There are 2 forms of PHA1: the autosomal
    recessive form that is severe, and the dominant form which is more
    milder and due to defects in mineralocorticoid receptor. Autosomal
    recessive PHA1 is characterized by an often fulminant presentation
    in the neonatal period with dehydration, hyponatraemia,
    hyperkalaemia, metabolic acidosis, failure to thrive and weight
    loss.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SCNN1B are a cause of Liddle syndrome
    [MIM:177200]. It is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized
    by pseudoaldosteronism and hypertension associated with
    hypokalemic alkalosis. The disease is caused by constitutive
    activation of the renal epithelial sodium channel.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SCNN1B".
 GO:0015280; F:amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007588; P:excretion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006814; P:sodium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Polymorphism;
Sensory transduction; Sodium; Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Taste;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
