AC   P37088; O43271; Q9UM64;
Amiloride-sensitive sodium channel subunit alpha (Epithelial Na+
channel subunit alpha) (Alpha ENaC) (Nonvoltage-gated sodium channel 1
subunit alpha) (SCNEA) (Alpha NaCH).
"The lung amiloride-sensitive Na+ channel: biophysical properties,
pharmacology, ontogenesis, and molecular cloning.";
"Cloning, expression, and tissue distribution of a human amiloride-
sensitive Na+ channel.";
"Structural organisation of the gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the
human amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel.";
"Hormonal regulation and genomic organization of the human amiloride-
sensitive epithelial sodium channel alpha subunit gene.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"5' heterogeneity in epithelial sodium channel alpha-subunit mRNA
leads to distinct NH2-terminal variant proteins.";
"The alpha-subunit of the epithelial sodium channel is an aldosterone-
induced transcript in mammalian collecting ducts, and this
transcriptional response is mediated via distinct cis-elements in the
5'-flanking region of the gene.";
"Cloning and functional studies of splice variants of the alpha-
subunit of the amiloride-sensitive Na+ channel.";
"Identification of novel human WW domain-containing proteins by
cloning of ligand targets.";
"The Nedd4-like protein KIAA0439 is a potential regulator of the
epithelial sodium channel.";
"Ubiquitin-protein ligase WWP2 binds to and downregulates the
epithelial Na(+) channel.";
"Serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase modulates Nedd4-2-mediated
inhibition of the epithelial Na+ channel.";
"Polymorphisms of amiloride-sensitive sodium channel subunits in five
sporadic cases of pseudohypoaldosteronism: do they have pathologic
potential?";
"Lung symptoms in pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 are associated with
deficiency of the alpha-subunit of the epithelial sodium channel.";
"Novel mutations responsible for autosomal recessive multisystem
pseudohypoaldosteronism and sequence variants in epithelial sodium
channel alpha-, beta-, and gamma-subunit genes.";
"Novel mutations in epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunit genes and
phenotypic expression of multisystem pseudohypoaldosteronism.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sodium permeable non-voltage-sensitive ion channel
    inhibited by the diuretic amiloride. Mediates the electrodiffusion
    of the luminal sodium (and water, which follows osmotically)
    through the apical membrane of epithelial cells. Controls the
    reabsorption of sodium in kidney, colon, lung and sweat glands.
    Also plays a role in taste perception.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of two alpha, one beta and one gamma
    subunit. A delta subunit can replace the alpha subunit. Interacts
    with the WW domains of NEDD4, NEDD4L, WWP1 and WWP2.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; multi-
    pass membrane protein. Note=Apical membrane of epithelial cells.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=5;
    Name=1; Synonyms=Alpha ENAC1;
      IsoId=P37088-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Alpha ENAC2;
      IsoId=P37088-2; Sequence=VSP_007719;
    Name=3; Synonyms=Alpha ENACx;
      IsoId=P37088-3; Sequence=VSP_007720, VSP_007721;
      Note=Does not give rise to amiloride-sensitive ion current;
    Name=4; Synonyms=Alpha ENAC-19;
      IsoId=P37088-4; Sequence=VSP_007722;
      Note=Amiloride-sensitive ion current is nearly abolished;
    Name=5; Synonyms=Alpha ENAC+22;
      IsoId=P37088-5; Sequence=VSP_007723;
      Note=Does not give rise to amiloride-sensitive ion current;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in kidney and lung. Detected
    at intermediate levels in pancreas and liver, and at low levels in
    heart and placenta. Isoform 1 and isoform 2 predominate in all
    tissues. Expression of isoform 3, isoform 4 and isoform 5 is very
    low or not detectable, except in lung and heart.
-!- INDUCTION: By aldosterone.
-!- PTM: Ubiquitinated; this targets individual subunits for
    endocytosis and proteasome-mediated degradation (By similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SCNN1A are a cause of autosomal recessive
    pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1) [MIM:264350]. PHA1 is a rare
    salt wasting disease resulting from target organ unresponsiveness
    to mineralocorticoids. There are 2 forms of PHA1: the autosomal
    recessive form that is severe, and the dominant form which is more
    milder and due to defects in mineralocorticoid receptor. Autosomal
    recessive PHA1 is characterized by an often fulminant presentation
    in the neonatal period with dehydration, hyponatraemia,
    hyperkalaemia, metabolic acidosis, failure to thrive and weight
    loss.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SCNN1A".
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007588; P:excretion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006814; P:sodium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Polymorphism; Sensory transduction; Sodium;
Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Taste; Transmembrane; Transport;
Ubl conjugation.
TMTWO
