AC   Q9JK00;
Sodium channel subunit beta-3 precursor.
"Beta3: an additional auxiliary subunit of the voltage-sensitive
sodium channel that modulates channel gating with distinct kinetics.";
"Differential modulation of sodium channel gating and persistent
sodium currents by the beta1, beta2, and beta3 subunits.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Sodium channel beta1 and beta3 subunits associate with neurofascin
through their extracellular immunoglobulin-like domain.";
"Role of auxiliary beta1-, beta2-, and beta3-subunits and their
interaction with Na(v)1.8 voltage-gated sodium channel.";
-!- FUNCTION: Modulates channel gating kinetics. Causes unique
    persistent sodium currents. Inactivates the sodium channel opening
    more slowly than the subunit beta-1. Its association with
    neurofascin may target the sodium channels to the nodes of Ranvier
    of developing axons and retain these channels at the nodes in
    mature myelinated axons.
-!- SUBUNIT: The voltage-sensitive sodium channel consists of an ion
    conducting pore forming alpha-subunit regulated by one or more
    beta-1, beta-2 and/or beta-3 subunits. Beta-1 and beta-3 are non-
    covalently associated with alpha, while beta-2 is covalently
    linked by disulfide bonds. Beta-1 or beta-3 subunits associate
    with neurofascin. Associates with SCN10A.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed broadly in neurons in the central
    and peripheral nervous systems, but not in glia and most non-
    neuronal cells. Weak detection in lung and adrenal gland.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like)
    domain.
 GO:0016021; C:integral to membrane; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0016974; F:sodium channel auxiliary protein activity; IDA:RGD.
Glycoprotein; Immunoglobulin domain; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Signal; Sodium; Sodium channel; Sodium transport;
Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMONE
