AC   P51170; P78437; Q6PCC2; Q93023; Q93024; Q93025; Q93026; Q93027;
AC   Q96TD2;
Amiloride-sensitive sodium channel gamma-subunit (Epithelial Na+
channel subunit gamma) (Gamma ENaC) (Nonvoltage-gated sodium channel 1
subunit gamma) (SCNEG) (Gamma NaCH).
"Cloning, chromosomal localization, and physical linkage of the beta
and gamma subunits (SCNN1B and SCNN1G) of the human epithelial
amiloride-sensitive sodium channel.";
"Cloning and expression of the beta- and gamma-subunits of the human
epithelial sodium channel.";
"Novel mutations responsible for autosomal recessive multisystem
pseudohypoaldosteronism and sequence variants in epithelial sodium
channel alpha-, beta-, and gamma-subunit genes.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Genomic organization and the 5' flanking region of the gamma subunit
of the human amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel.";
"Hypertension caused by a truncated epithelial sodium channel gamma
subunit: genetic heterogeneity of Liddle syndrome.";
"Identification of novel human WW domain-containing proteins by
cloning of ligand targets.";
"The Nedd4-like protein KIAA0439 is a potential regulator of the
epithelial sodium channel.";
"Ubiquitin-protein ligase WWP2 binds to and downregulates the
epithelial Na(+) channel.";
"Polymorphisms of amiloride-sensitive sodium channel subunits in five
sporadic cases of pseudohypoaldosteronism: do they have pathologic
potential?";
"Patterns of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in candidate genes for
blood-pressure homeostasis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sodium permeable non-voltage-sensitive ion channel
    inhibited by the diuretic amiloride. Mediates the electrodiffusion
    of the luminal sodium (and water, which follows osmotically)
    through the apical membrane of epithelial cells. Controls the
    reabsorption of sodium in kidney, colon, lung and sweat glands.
    Also plays a role in taste perception.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of two alpha, one beta and one gamma
    subunit. A delta subunit can replace the alpha subunit. Interacts
    with the WW domains of NEDD4, NEDD4L, WWP1 and WWP2.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; multi-
    pass membrane protein. Note=Apical membrane of epithelial cells.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on serine and threonine residues (By
    similarity).
-!- PTM: Ubiquitinated; this targets individual subunits for
    endocytosis and proteasome-mediated degradation (By similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SCNN1G are a cause of Liddle syndrome
    [MIM:177200]. It is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized
    by pseudoaldosteronism and hypertension associated with
    hypokalemic alkalosis. The disease is caused by constitutive
    activation of the renal epithelial sodium channel.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SCNN1G".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015280; F:amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0007588; P:excretion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006814; P:sodium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Polymorphism; Sensory transduction; Sodium; Sodium channel;
Sodium transport; Taste; Transmembrane; Transport; Ubl conjugation.
TMTWO
