AC   Q56019; Q56024; Q7CPX0;
Cell invasion protein sipB (Effector protein sipB).
"Homologs of the Shigella IpaB and IpaC invasins are required for
Salmonella typhimurium entry into cultured epithelial cells.";
"Complete genome sequence of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium
LT2.";
"Salmonella typhimurium secreted invasion determinants are homologous
to Shigella Ipa proteins.";
"The Salmonella invasin SipB induces macrophage apoptosis by binding
to caspase-1.";
"Membrane fusion activity of purified SipB, a Salmonella surface
protein essential for mammalian cell invasion.";
"The Salmonella type III secretion translocon protein SspC is inserted
into the epithelial cell plasma membrane upon infection.";
"Salmonella type III secretion-associated protein InvE controls
translocation of effector proteins into host cells.";
"Topology of the Salmonella invasion protein SipB in a model
bilayer.";
"A Salmonella protein causes macrophage cell death by inducing
autophagy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Required for entry into the host cell through
    presentation or delivery of sipC at the host cell plasma membrane.
    Along with sipC, is necessary for the transfer of other effector
    proteins into the host cell. Induces macrophage apoptosis either
    by binding and activating the proapoptotic enzyme caspase-1
    (caspase-1 dependent), resulting in the release of interleukin-1
    beta active form, or by disrupting mitochondria and inducing
    autophagy (caspase-1 independent). The former is dependent of its
    membrane-fusion activity. The sipBC complex, in association with
    its chaperone sicA, is regulated by binding of invE.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotrimer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Secreted via the type
    III secretion system 1 (SPI-1 TTSS), inserted into the phagosomal
    membrane and subsequently released into the host cell cytoplasm.
-!- DOMAIN: SipB membrane integration requires both hydrophobic
    domains and the helical C-terminal region.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sipB/ipaB family.
Coiled coil; Complete proteome; Membrane; Transmembrane; Virulence.
TMTWO
