AC   Q9M8S6; O82630; Q9SB86;
Potassium channel SKOR (Stelar K(+) outward rectifying channel).
"Identification and disruption of a plant shaker-like outward channel
involved in K+ release into the xylem sap.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 3 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"pH control of the plant outwardly-rectifying potassium channel
SKOR.";
"Phylogenetic relationships within cation transporter families of
Arabidopsis.";
"Regulated expression of Arabidopsis shaker K(+) channel genes
involved in K(+) uptake and distribution in the plant.";
-!- FUNCTION: Highly selective outward-rectifying potassium channel.
    Involved in potassium release into the xylem sap toward the
    shoots. Assuming opened or closed conformations in response to the
    voltage difference across the membrane, the channel is activated
    by depolarization. The voltage-dependence of the channel is
    abolished by internal or external acidification. May interact with
    the cytoskeleton or with regulatory proteins.
-!- SUBUNIT: The potassium channel is probably composed of a homo- or
    heterotetrameric complex of pore-forming subunits (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in root pericycle and xylem
    parenchyma, and in flower at a lower level.
-!- INDUCTION: In roots, strongly inhibited by 2,4-
    dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), abscisic acid (ABA) and
    benzyladenine (BA) treatment or by potassium starvation.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids. The
    pore-forming region H5 is enclosed by the transmembrane segments
    S5 and S6 in the Shaker-type (1P/6TM) and contains the GYGD
    signature motif which seems to be involved in potassium
    selectivity.
-!- DOMAIN: The KHA domain (rich in hydrophobic and acidic residues)
    present in the C-terminal part is likely to be important for
    tetramerization.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Loss-of-function mutation skor-1 leads to a reduced
    shoot potassium content.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel (TC 1.A.1.4) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 6 ANK repeats.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 cyclic nucleotide-binding domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 KHA domain.
ANK repeat; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Potassium;
Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
