AC   Q95V25; Q95V26; Q95V27; Q9U268;
Calcium-activated potassium channel slo-1 (Maxi K channel) (MaxiK) (BK
channel) (Slo homolog) (Slowpoke protein 1).
"SLO-1 potassium channels control quantal content of neurotransmitter
release at the C. elegans neuromuscular junction.";
"Genome sequence of the nematode C. elegans: a platform for
investigating biology.";
"A central role of the BK potassium channel in behavioral responses to
ethanol in C. elegans.";
-!- FUNCTION: Potassium channel activated by both membrane
    depolarization or increase in cytosolic Ca(2+) that mediates
    export of K(+). Its activation dampens the excitatory events that
    elevate the cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration and/or depolarize the
    cell membrane. It therefore contributes to repolarization of the
    membrane potential. Plays a central role in synapses by regulating
    neurotransmitter release (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer; which constitutes the calcium-activated
    potassium channel (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=a;
      IsoId=Q95V25-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=b;
      IsoId=Q95V25-2; Sequence=VSP_009998;
    Name=c;
      IsoId=Q95V25-3; Sequence=VSP_009996, VSP_009997, VSP_009998;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in synaptic regions of the nervous
    system including in both the nerve ring and nerve cords, as well
    as in the body-wall and vulval muscle.
-!- DOMAIN: The S4 segment, which is characterized by a series of
    positively charged amino acids at every third position, is part of
    the voltage-sensor (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The pore-forming domain (also referred as P region) is
    imbedded into the membrane, and forms the selectivity filter of
    the pore. It contains the signature sequence of potassium channels
    that displays selectivity to potassium (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The RCK N-terminal domain mediates the
    homotetramerization, thereby promoting the assembly of monomers
    into functional potassium channel. It includes binding sites for
    Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The calcium bowl constitutes one of the Ca(2+) sensors and
    probably acts as a Ca(2+)-binding site (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Its activity is activated by ethanol, leading to
    the inhibition of neuronal activity.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel family. Calcium-
    activated subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 RCK N-terminal domain.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Complete proteome; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Potassium;
Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Transmembrane; Transport;
Voltage-gated channel.
TMSEVEN
