AC   Q9Y6L6; Q9NQ37; Q9UBF3; Q9UH89;
Solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 1B1 (Solute
carrier family 21 member 6) (Sodium-independent organic anion-
transporting polypeptide 2) (OATP 2) (Liver-specific organic anion
transporter 1) (LST-1) (OATP-C).
"Identification of a novel gene family encoding human liver-specific
organic anion transporter LST-1.";
"A novel human hepatic organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP2).
Identification of a liver-specific human organic anion transporting
polypeptide and identification of rat and human hydroxymethylglutaryl-
CoA reductase inhibitor transporters.";
"A novel human organic anion transporting polypeptide localized to the
basolateral hepatocyte membrane.";
"Localization and genomic organization of a new hepatocellular organic
anion transporting polypeptide.";
"SeattleSNPs. NHLBI HL66682 program for genomic applications, UW-
FHCRC, Seattle, WA (URL: http://pga.gs.washington.edu).";
"Polymorphisms in OATP-C: identification of multiple allelic variants
associated with altered transport activity among European- and
African-Americans.";
"A naturally occurring mutation in the SLC21A6 gene causing impaired
membrane localization of the hepatocyte uptake transporter.";
"Genetic polymorphisms of human organic anion transporters OATP-C
(SLC21A6) and OATP-B (SLC21A9): allele frequencies in the Japanese
population and functional analysis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates the Na(+)-independent transport of organic
    anions such as pravastatin, taurocholate, methotrexate,
    dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, 17-beta-glucuronosyl estradiol,
    estrone sulfate, prostaglandin E2, thromboxane B2, leukotriene C3,
    leukotriene E4, thyroxine and triiodothyronine. May play an
    important role in the clearance of bile acids and organic anions
    from the liver.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; basolateral cell membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein. Note=Detected in basolateral
    membranes of hepatocytes.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in liver. Not detected in
    heart, brain, placenta, lung, skeletal muscle, kidney, pancreas,
    spleen, thymus, prostate, testis, ovary, small intestine, colon
    and leukocyte.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the organo anion transporter (TC 2.A.60)
    family.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015347; F:sodium-independent organic anion transporte...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015711; P:organic anion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Membrane; Polymorphism; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMSEVEN
