AC   P10946;
Lantibiotic subtilin precursor.
"Structure and expression of a gene encoding the precursor of
subtilin, a small protein antibiotic.";
"The subtilin gene of Bacillus subtilis ATCC 6633 is encoded in an
operon that contains a homolog of the hemolysin B transport protein.";
"Analysis of genes involved in biosynthesis of the lantibiotic
subtilin.";
"Determination of the sequence of spaE and identification of a
promoter in the subtilin (spa) operon in Bacillus subtilis.";
"Genes involved in self-protection against the lantibiotic subtilin
produced by Bacillus subtilis ATCC 6633.";
"Subtilin, VI: the structure of subtilin.";
"The peptide antibiotic subtilin acts by formation of voltage-
dependent multi-state pores in bacterial and artificial membranes.";
"A novel post-translational modification of the peptide antibiotic
subtilin: isolation and characterization of a natural variant from
Bacillus subtilis A.T.C.C. 6633.";
"Sequence-specific resonance assignment and conformational analysis of
subtilin by 2D NMR.";
"The antimicrobial effect of a structural variant of subtilin against
outgrowing Bacillus cereus T spores and vegetative cells occurs by
different mechanisms.";
-!- FUNCTION: Lanthionine-containing peptide antibiotic (lantibiotic)
    active on Gram-positive bacteria. The bactericidal activity of
    lantibiotics is based on depolarization of energized bacterial
    cytoplasmic membranes, initiated by the formation of aqueous
    transmembrane pores.
-!- PTM: Maturation of lantibiotics involves the enzymic conversion of
    Thr, and Ser into dehydrated AA and the formation of thioether
    bonds with cysteine. This is followed by membrane translocation
    and cleavage of the modified precursor.
-!- PTM: Succinylated subtilin is 10-20 times less active than
    subtilin. The ratio subtilin/succinylated subtilin is about 1:2
    after 24 hours growth.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Subtilin activity is observed during stationary
    phase, but not during exponential growth.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the type A lantibiotic family.
Antibiotic; Antimicrobial; Bacteriocin; Direct protein sequencing;
Lantibiotic; Thioether bond.
TMZERO
