AC   P17213; Q9BYZ9; Q9H1L2; Q9H1M8; Q9H203; Q9UD65;
Bactericidal permeability-increasing protein precursor (BPI) (CAP 57).
"Cloning of the cDNA of a human neutrophil bactericidal protein.
Structural and functional correlations.";
"Bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein and lipopolysaccharide
(LPS)-binding protein. LPS binding properties and effects on LPS-
mediated cell activation.";
"Cloning of cDNA of human bactericidal/permeability-increasing
protein.";
"The DNA sequence and comparative analysis of human chromosome 20.";
"A 25-kDa NH2-terminal fragment carries all the antibacterial
activities of the human neutrophil 60-kDa bactericidal/permeability-
increasing protein.";
"Antibiotic proteins of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.";
"Crystal structure of human BPI and two bound phospholipids at 2.4-A
resolution.";
-!- FUNCTION: The cytotoxic action of BPI is limited to many species
    of Gram-negative bacteria; this specificity may be explained by a
    strong affinity of the very basic N-terminal half for the
    negatively charged lipopolysaccharides that are unique to the
    Gram-negative bacterial outer envelope.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Note=Membrane-associated in
    polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (PMN) granules.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Restricted to cells of the myeloid series.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminal region may be exposed to the interior of
    the granule, whereas the C-terminal portion may be embedded in the
    membrane. During phagocytosis and degranulation, proteases may be
    released and activated and cleave BPI at the junction of the N-
    and C-terminal portions of the molecule, providing controlled
    release of the N-terminal antibacterial fragment when bacteria are
    ingested.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the BPI/LBP/Plunc superfamily. BPI/LBP
    family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.4 (CAC10453 and CAC27350) sequences differ from that
    shown due to erroneous gene model prediction.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Antibiotic; Antimicrobial; Direct protein sequencing;
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Polymorphism; Signal.
TMZERO
