AC   P27105; Q14087; Q15609; Q5VX96; Q96FK4;
Erythrocyte band 7 integral membrane protein (Stomatin) (Protein
7.2b).
"Cloning and nucleotide sequence of cDNA encoding human erythrocyte
band 7 integral membrane protein.";
"Isolation of cDNA coding for an ubiquitous membrane protein deficient
in high Na+, low K+ stomatocytic erythrocytes.";
"The organization of the gene (EPB72) encoding the human erythrocyte
band 7 integral membrane protein (protein 7.2b).";
"Structure, organization, and expression of the human band 7.2b gene,
a candidate gene for hereditary hydrocytosis.";
"Cloning of human full open reading frames in Gateway(TM) system entry
vector (pDONR201).";
"DNA sequence and analysis of human chromosome 9.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Identification of the phosphorylation site on human erythrocyte band
7 integral membrane protein: implications for a monotopic protein
structure.";
"Colocalization of stomatin (band 7.2b) and actin microfilaments in
UAC epithelial cells.";
"Isolation, molecular characterization, and tissue-specific expression
of a novel putative G protein-coupled receptor.";
"Oligomeric nature of the integral membrane protein stomatin.";
"Cysteine 29 is the major palmitoylation site on stomatin.";
"Stomatin is a major lipid-raft component of platelet alpha
granules.";
"Characterization of the stomatin domain involved in homo-
oligomerization and lipid raft association.";
-!- FUNCTION: Thought to regulate cation conductance. May regulate
    ACCN1 and ACCN3 gating (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homooligomer containing between 9 and 12 monomers.
    Interacts with ACCN1, ACCN2 and ACCN3 (By similarity). Interacts
    with LANCL1.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; single-pass membrane protein;
    cytoplasmic side. Cell membrane; lipid-anchor; cytoplasmic side.
    Note=Exposed on the cytoplasmic surface of the membrane.
    Associated with lipid rafts. Concentrates preferentially in plasma
    membrane protrusions and in a juxta-nuclear region which may
    represent Golgi-derived vesicles. Colocalizes with actin.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed.
-!- DISEASE: Stomatin is deficient in overhydrated hereditary
    stomatocytosis (OHS); also known as cryohydrocytosis or hereditary
    stomatocytosis. OHS results in red cell anomaly associated with
    hemolytic anemia. There is increased Na(+)/K(+)-permeability and
    hence a disorder of cell volume control. The nature of the
    molecular defect underlying OHS is unknown.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the band 7/mec-2 family.
 GO:0005856; C:cytoskeleton; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0045121; C:lipid raft; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0051260; P:protein homooligomerization; IDA:UniProtKB.
Direct protein sequencing; Lipoprotein; Membrane; Palmitate;
Phosphorylation; Transmembrane.
TMONE
