AC   Q39232;
Sucrose transport protein SUC1 (Sucrose permease 1) (Sucrose-proton
symporter 1).
"SUC1 and SUC2: two sucrose transporters from Arabidopsis thaliana;
expression and characterization in baker's yeast and identification of
the histidine-tagged protein.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 1 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Arabidopsis ORF clones.";
"A kinetic model with ordered cytoplasmic dissociation for SUC1, an
Arabidopsis H(+)/sucrose cotransporter expressed in Xenopus oocytes.";
"His-65 in the proton-sucrose symporter is an essential amino acid
whose modification with site-directed mutagenesis increases transport
activity.";
"The AtSUC1 sucrose carrier may represent the osmotic driving force
for anther dehiscence and pollen tube growth in Arabidopsis.";
"Sugar-induced increase in cytosolic Ca(2+) in Arabidopsis thaliana
whole plants.";
"Isolation of intact vacuoles and proteomic analysis of tonoplast from
suspension-cultured cells of Arabidopsis thaliana.";
-!- FUNCTION: Responsible for the transport of sucrose into the cell,
    with the concomitant uptake of protons (symport system). This
    transport is both voltage- and energy-dependent. Can also
    transport other glucosides such as maltose, alpha-phenylglucoside
    and beta-phenylglucoside. May also transport biotin. Seems
    probably involved in pollen germination.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by DEPC, protonophores (e.g.
    dinitrophenol and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl-hydrazone
    (CCCP)), and SH group inhibitors (e.g. N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and
    p-chloromercuriphenyl sulphonic acid (PCMPS)).
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=450 uM for sucrose (at pH 5.5 and 30 degrees Celsius);
      Vmax=45 umol/h/g enzyme (without glucose);
      Vmax=154 umol/h/g enzyme (in the presence of 10 mM glucose);
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 5-6;
-!- PATHWAY: Sucrose metabolism.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Flowers (at protein level).
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Transcripts accumulate in mature pollen
    before and during germination, but translation starts only when
    pollen germination initiates, and continues in pollen tubes.
    Expressed in cells surrounding the vascular bundle of the anther
    connective tissue, mostly at the dehiscence time. Also present in
    a ring of parenchymatic cells between the xylem vessels of the
    style (upper end of the transmitting tract toward which pollen
    tubes grow). Expressed in the epidermal cell layers of funiculi
    (at protein level).
-!- INDUCTION: Induced by sucrose depletion.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the glycoside-pentoside-hexuronide (GPH)
    cation symporter transporter (TC 2.A.2.4.1) family.
 GO:0009624; P:response to nematode; IEP:TAIR.
Membrane; Sugar transport; Symport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
