AC   Q02563; Q58DZ8;
Synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2A (Synaptic vesicle protein 2A)
(Synaptic vesicle protein 2).
"The synaptic vesicle protein SV2 is a novel type of transmembrane
transporter.";
"Identification, characterization, and molecular cloning of a novel
transporter-like protein localized to the central nervous system.";
"SV2, a brain synaptic vesicle protein homologous to bacterial
transporters.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Isoform-specific, calcium-regulated interaction of the synaptic
vesicle proteins SV2 and synaptotagmin.";
"SV2C is a synaptic vesicle protein with an unusually restricted
localization: anatomy of a synaptic vesicle protein family.";
"AP-2 recruitment to synaptotagmin stimulated by tyrosine-based
endocytic motifs.";
"Phosphorylation of synaptic vesicle protein 2 modulates binding to
synaptotagmin.";
"The synaptic vesicle protein SV2A is the binding site for the
antiepileptic drug levetiracetam.";
"SV2A and SV2C are not vesicular Ca2+ transporters but control
glucose-evoked granule recruitment.";
"SV2A and SV2C contain a unique synaptotagmin-binding site.";
"SV2 is the protein receptor for botulinum neurotoxin A.";
-!- FUNCTION: Plays a role in the control of regulated secretion in
    neural and endocrine cells, enhancing selectively low-frequency
    neurotransmission. Positively regulates vesicle fusion by
    maintaining the readily releasable pool of secretory vesicles.
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor for the botulinium neurotoxin type A/BOTA.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with SYT1/synaptotagmin-1 in a calcium-
    dependent manner. Binds the adapter protein complex AP-2.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P21707:Syt1; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-466194, EBI-458098;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasmic vesicle; secretory vesicle;
    synaptic vesicle; synaptic vesicle membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein. Note=Enriched in chromaffin granules, not present in
    adrenal microsomes. Associated with both insulin granules and
    synaptic-like microvesicles in insulin-secreting cells of the
    pancreas.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed throughout the brain (at
    protein level). Expressed by neural and endocrine cells of brain
    and spinal cord.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation by CK1 of the N-terminal cytoplasmic domain
    regulates interaction with SYT1.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Identified as the brain binding-site for the
    antiepileptic drug levetiracetam/lev.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily.
 GO:0016021; C:integral to membrane; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0030672; C:synaptic vesicle membrane; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005215; F:transporter activity; TAS:RGD.
 GO:0006836; P:neurotransmitter transport; TAS:RGD.
Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein; Membrane;
Neurotransmitter transport; Phosphorylation; Receptor; Synapse;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
