AC   P06129; Q2M8R1;
Vitamin B12 transporter btuB precursor (Cobalamin receptor) (Outer
membrane cobalamin translocator).
"Nucleotide sequence of the gene for the vitamin B12 receptor protein
in the outer membrane of Escherichia coli.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome. IV. DNA sequence of the
region from 89.2 to 92.8 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"The trmA promoter has regulatory features and sequence elements in
common with the rRNA P1 promoter family of Escherichia coli.";
"Comparing the predicted and observed properties of proteins encoded
in the genome of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"The Escherichia coli mutant requiring D-glutamic acid is the result
of mutations in two distinct genetic loci.";
"Point mutations in a conserved region (TonB box) of Escherichia coli
outer membrane protein BtuB affect vitamin B12 transport.";
"Coupled changes in translation and transcription during cobalamin-
dependent regulation of btuB expression in Escherichia coli.";
"Site-directed disulfide bonding reveals an interaction site between
energy-coupling protein TonB and BtuB, the outer membrane cobalamin
transporter.";
"Transport-defective mutations alter the conformation of the energy-
coupling motif of an outer membrane transporter.";
"The Escherichia coli outer membrane cobalamin transporter BtuB:
structural analysis of calcium and substrate binding, and
identification of orthologous transporters by sequence/structure
conservation.";
"Crystallization and initial X-ray diffraction of BtuB, the integral
membrane cobalamin transporter of Escherichia coli.";
"Substrate-induced transmembrane signaling in the cobalamin
transporter BtuB.";
"The structure of BtuB with bound colicin E3 R-domain implies a
translocon.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in the active translocation of vitamin B12
    (cyanocobalamin) across the outer membrane to the periplasmic
    space. It derives its energy for transport by interacting with the
    trans-periplasmic membrane protein tonB. Is also a receptor for
    bacteriophages BF23 and C1, and for A and E colicins.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Calcium increases vitamin B12 binding affinity
    by a factor of 50-100.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P00646:ceaC; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-1037258, EBI-1029919;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell outer membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- INDUCTION: Constitutively expressed.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Primary control of btuB expression by cobalamin
    occurs at the level of translation initiation.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the tonB-dependent receptor family. BtuB
    (TC 1.B.14.3.1) subfamily.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; Calcium; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Membrane; Metal-binding; Outer membrane; Phage recognition; Receptor;
Signal; TonB box; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWENTYTWO
