AC   P10845; P01561; P18639;
Botulinum neurotoxin type A precursor (EC 3.4.24.69) (BoNT/A)
(Bontoxilysin-A) (BOTOX) [Contains: Botulinum neurotoxin A light-
chain; Botulinum neurotoxin A heavy-chain].
"The complete amino acid sequence of the Clostridium botulinum type A
neurotoxin, deduced by nucleotide sequence analysis of the encoding
gene.";
"The complete sequence of botulinum neurotoxin type A and comparison
with other clostridial neurotoxins.";
"Organization and phylogenetic interrelationships of genes encoding
components of the botulinum toxin complex in proteolytic Clostridium
botulinum types A, B, and F: evidence of chimeric sequences in the
gene encoding the nontoxic nonhemagglutinin component.";
"Characterization of botulinum type A neurotoxin gene: delineation of
the N-terminal encoding region.";
"Molecular characterization of two forms of nontoxic-nonhemagglutinin
components of Clostridium botulinum type A progenitor toxins.";
"Partial amino acid sequence of the heavy and light chains of
botulinum neurotoxin type A.";
"Partial sequence of the light chain of botulinum neurotoxin type A.";
"Botulinum neurotoxin type A: sequence of amino acids at the N-
terminus and around the nicking site.";
"Botulinum neurotoxin type A: cleavage of the heavy chain into two
halves and their partial sequences.";
"Inactivation of Clostridium botulinum type A neurotoxin by trypsin
and purification of two tryptic fragments. Proteolytic action near the
COOH-terminus of the heavy subunit destroys toxin-binding activity.";
"Botulinum type A neurotoxin digested with pepsin yields 132, 97, 72,
45, 42, and 18 kD fragments.";
"Botulinum neurotoxins serotypes A and E cleave SNAP-25 at distinct
COOH-terminal peptide bonds.";
"Proteolysis of SNAP-25 by types E and A botulinal neurotoxins.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis identifies active-site residues of the
light chain of botulinum neurotoxin type a.";
"SV2 is the protein receptor for botulinum neurotoxin A.";
"Crystal structure of botulinum neurotoxin type A and implications for
toxicity.";
-!- FUNCTION: Inhibits acetylcholine release. The botulinum toxin
    binds with high affinity to peripheral neuronal presynaptic
    membrane to the secretory vesicle protein SV2. It binds directly
    to the largest luminal loop of SV2A, SV2B and SV2C. It is then
    internalized by receptor-mediated endocytosis. The C-terminus of
    the heavy chain (H) is responsible for the adherence of the toxin
    to the cell surface while the N-terminus mediates transport of the
    light chain from the endocytic vesicle to the cytosol. After
    translocation, the light chain (L) hydrolyzes the 197-Gln-|-Arg-
    198 bond in SNAP-25, thereby blocking neurotransmitter release.
    Inhibition of acetylcholine release results in flaccid paralysis,
    with frequent heart or respiratory failure.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Limited hydrolysis of proteins of the
    neuroexocytosis apparatus, synaptobrevins, SNAP25 or syntaxin. No
    detected action on small molecule substrates.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: Disulfide-linked heterodimer of a light chain (L) and a
    heavy chain (H).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- PHARMACEUTICAL: Available under the name BOTOX (Allergan) for the
    treatment of strabismus and blepharospasm associated with dystonia
    and cervical dystonia. Also used for the treatment of hemifacial
    spasm and a number of other neurological disorders characterized
    by abnormal muscle contraction.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: There are seven antigenically distinct forms of
    botulinum neurotoxin: Types A, B, C1, D, E, F, and G.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peptidase M27 family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=BOTOX product information Web site;
    URL="http://www.botox.com/site/".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Protein Spotlight;
    NOTE=From sausages to wrinkles - Issue 19 of February 2002;
    URL="http://www.expasy.org/spotlight/back_issues/sptlt019.shtml".
3D-structure; Direct protein sequencing; Hydrolase; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Metalloprotease; Neurotoxin; Pharmaceutical; Protease;
Toxin; Transmembrane; Zinc.
TMTWO
