AC   P69428; O65938; P27856; Q2M8E1;
Sec-independent protein translocase protein tatA.
"Overlapping functions of components of a bacterial Sec-independent
protein export pathway.";
"A novel and ubiquitous system for membrane targeting and secretion of
cofactor-containing proteins.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome: DNA sequence of the region
from 84.5 to 86.5 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"TatB and TatC form a functional and structural unit of the twin-
arginine translocase from Escherichia coli.";
"The Tat protein export pathway.";
"Purified components of the Escherichia coli Tat protein transport
system form a double-layered ring structure.";
"Characterization and membrane assembly of the TatA component of the
Escherichia coli twin-arginine protein transport system.";
"The Escherichia coli twin-arginine translocation apparatus
incorporates a distinct form of TatABC complex, spectrum of modular
TatA complexes and minor TatAB complex.";
"The core TatABC complex of the twin-arginine translocase in
Escherichia coli: TatC drives assembly whereas TatA is essential for
stability.";
"The TatA component of the twin-arginine protein transport system
forms channel complexes of variable diameter.";
-!- FUNCTION: Required for correct localization of precursor proteins
    bearing signal peptides with the twin arginine conserved motif
    S/T-R-R-X-F-L-K. This sec-independent pathway is termed TAT for
    twin-arginine translocation system. This system mainly transports
    proteins with bound cofactors that require folding prior to
    export. TatA seems to form the protein-conducting channel of the
    TAT system.
-!- SUBUNIT: So far, according to different studies, three types of
    complexes have been observed. A tatABC complex, a spectrum of
    homooligomeric tatA complexes and a complex containing only tatA
    and tatB. TatA forms a transmembrane channel with a lid structure
    on the cytoplasmic side. The number of tatA protomers can vary so
    that the channel can adopt different diameters to accommodate
    substrates of various sizes. This enable tatA to pack tightly
    around substrate and prevent ion leakage during transport.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; single-pass membrane
    protein; cytoplasmic side.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Absence of tatA from the tatBC complex leads to the
    instability of the complex and the specific breakdown of tatB.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the tatA/E family.
 GO:0009306; P:protein secretion; IEA:HAMAP.
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Inner membrane;
Membrane; Protein transport; Translocation; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMONE
