AC   P04958;
Tetanus toxin precursor (EC 3.4.24.68) (Tentoxylysin) [Contains:
Tetanus toxin light chain (Tetanus toxin chain L); Tetanus toxin heavy
chain (Tetanus toxin chain H)].
"Tetanus toxin: primary structure, expression in E. coli, and homology
with botulinum toxins.";
"The complete nucleotide sequence of tetanus toxin.";
"The genome sequence of Clostridium tetani, the causative agent of
tetanus disease.";
"Cloning, nucleotide sequencing, and expression of tetanus toxin
fragment C in Escherichia coli.";
"Arrangement of disulfide bridges and positions of sulfhydryl groups
in tetanus toxin.";
"Limited proteolysis of tetanus toxin. Relation to activity and
identification of cleavage sites.";
"Tetanus toxin is a zinc protein and its inhibition of
neurotransmitter release and protease activity depend on zinc.";
"Tetanus and botulinum-B neurotoxins block neurotransmitter release by
proteolytic cleavage of synaptobrevin.";
"Structure of the receptor binding fragment HC of tetanus
neurotoxin.";
-!- FUNCTION: Tetanus toxin acts by inhibiting neurotransmitter
    release. It binds to peripheral neuronal synapses, is internalized
    and moves by retrograde transport up the axon into the spinal cord
    where it can move between postsynaptic and presynaptic neurons. It
    inhibits neurotransmitter release by acting as a zinc
    endopeptidase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the '76-Gln-|-Phe-
    77' bond of synaptobrevin-2.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Hydrolysis of 76-Gln-|-Phe-77 bond in
    synaptobrevin 2.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per subunit (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: The precursor polypeptide is subsequently cleaved to
    yield subchains L and H. These remain linked by a disulfide bridge
    and are non-toxic after separation.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The C-terminus of the heavy chain binds to
    ganglioside receptors.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the peptidase M27 family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Hydrolase;
Metal-binding; Metalloprotease; Neurotoxin; Plasmid; Protease; Toxin;
Zinc.
TMZERO
