AC   Q07914;
Mitochondrial import inner membrane translocase subunit TIM14
(Presequence translocated-associated motor subunit PAM18).
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome XII.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Tim14, a novel key component of the import motor of the TIM23 protein
translocase of mitochondria.";
"A J-protein is an essential subunit of the presequence translocase-
associated protein import motor of mitochondria.";
"J protein cochaperone of the mitochondrial inner membrane required
for protein import into the mitochondrial matrix.";
"The presequence translocase-associated protein import motor of
mitochondria. Pam16 functions in an antagonistic manner to Pam18.";
"Pam16 has an essential role in the mitochondrial protein import
motor.";
"Pam17 is required for architecture and translocation activity of the
mitochondrial protein import motor.";
"Role of Pam16's degenerate J domain in protein import across the
mitochondrial inner membrane.";
-!- FUNCTION: Essential component of the PAM complex, a complex
    required for the translocation of transit peptide-containing
    proteins from the inner membrane into the mitochondrial matrix in
    an ATP-dependent manner. In the complex, it is required to
    stimulate activity of mtHSP70 (SSC1).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer and heterodimer with PAM16/TIM16.
    Homodimerization may not be relevant in vivo, while
    heterodimerizazion is essential for regulate activity of mtHSP70.
    Component of the PAM complex, at least composed of mtHsp70, MGE1,
    TIM44, PAM16, PAM17 and PAM18/TIM14. Interacts directly with
    mtHsp70. Interacts directly with TIM17 subunit of the TIM23
    complex.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    single-pass membrane protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The J domain is essential for co-chaperone activity and
    mediates the heterodimerization with the J-like domain of PAM16.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the TIM14 family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 J domain.
 GO:0001405; C:presequence translocase-associated import m...; IPI:SGD.
 GO:0001671; F:ATPase stimulator activity; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0008565; F:protein transporter activity; IMP:SGD.
 GO:0030150; P:protein import into mitochondrial matrix; IMP:SGD.
3D-structure; Chaperone; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane;
Mitochondrion; Protein transport; Translocation; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMONE
