AC   P87108;
Mitochondrial import inner membrane translocase subunit TIM10
(Mitochondrial intermembrane protein MRS11).
"A soluble 12-kDa protein of the mitochondrial intermembrane space,
Mrs11p, is essential for mitochondrial biogenesis and viability of
yeast cells.";
"Complete nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome
VIII.";
"Tim9p, an essential partner subunit of Tim10p for the import of
mitochondrial carrier proteins.";
"The structural basis of the TIM10 chaperone assembly.";
"Import of carrier proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane
mediated by Tim22.";
"Import of mitochondrial carriers mediated by essential proteins of
the intermembrane space.";
"Tim9, a new component of the TIM22.54 translocase in mitochondria.";
"Transport of the ADP/ATP carrier of mitochondria from the TOM complex
to the TIM22.54 complex.";
"Two intermembrane space TIM complexes interact with different domains
of Tim23p during its import into mitochondria.";
"Functional reconstitution of the import of the yeast ADP/ATP carrier
mediated by the TIM10 complex.";
"The essential function of the small Tim proteins in the TIM22 import
pathway does not depend on formation of the soluble 70-kilodalton
complex.";
"The Tim9p-Tim10p complex binds to the transmembrane domains of the
ADP/ATP carrier.";
"Assembly of Tim9 and Tim10 into a functional chaperone.";
"Mitochondrial import of the ADP/ATP carrier: the essential TIM
complex of the intermembrane space is required for precursor release
from the TOM complex.";
"Protein insertion into the mitochondrial inner membrane by a twin-
pore translocase.";
"Juxtaposition of the two distal CX3C motifs via intrachain disulfide
bonding is essential for the folding of Tim10.";
"Biogenesis of the protein import channel Tom40 of the mitochondrial
outer membrane: intermembrane space components are involved in an
early stage of the assembly pathway.";
"Functional TIM10 chaperone assembly is redox-regulated in vivo.";
"Distinct domains of small Tims involved in subunit interaction and
substrate recognition.";
"Zinc binding stabilizes mitochondrial Tim10 in a reduced and import-
competent state kinetically.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates
    in the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane proteins
    into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for the
    transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the
    sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer
    membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the
    hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the
    mitochondrial intermembrane space. Compared to TIM9, it may
    function as a substrate sensor.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterohexamer; composed of 3 copies of TIM9 and 3 copies
    of TIM10, named soluble 70 kDa complex. Associates directly with
    the TIM12 component of the TIM22 complex, whose core is composed
    of TIM18, TIM22 and TIM54. Interacts with the transmembrane
    regions of multi-pass transmembrane proteins in transit.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    peripheral membrane protein; intermembrane side.
-!- DOMAIN: The twin CX3C motif contains 4 conserved Cys residues that
    form 2 disulfide bonds in the mitochondrial intermembrane space.
    However, during the transit of TIM10 from cytoplasm into
    mitochondrion, the Cys residues probably coordinate zinc, thereby
    preventing folding and allowing its transfer across mitochondrial
    outer membrane.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the small Tim family.
 GO:0042719; C:mitochondrial intermembrane space protein t...; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0008565; F:protein transporter activity; IMP:SGD.
 GO:0051082; F:unfolded protein binding; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0045039; P:protein import into mitochondrial inner mem...; IMP:SGD.
Chaperone; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Inner membrane; Membrane; Metal-binding; Mitochondrion;
Protein transport; Translocation; Transport; Zinc.
TMZERO
