AC   Q12328;
Mitochondrial import inner membrane translocase subunit TIM22.
"The nucleotide sequence of a 39 kb segment of yeast chromosome IV: 12
new open reading frames, nine known genes and one gene for Gly-tRNA.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome IV.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Import of carrier proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane
mediated by Tim22.";
"Carrier protein import into mitochondria mediated by the
intermembrane proteins Tim10/Mrs11 and Tim12/Mrs5.";
"Import of mitochondrial carriers mediated by essential proteins of
the intermembrane space.";
"Biogenesis of Tim proteins of the mitochondrial carrier import
pathway: differential targeting mechanisms and crossing over with the
main import pathway.";
"Tim18p, a new subunit of the TIM22 complex that mediates insertion of
imported proteins into the yeast mitochondrial inner membrane.";
"Tim22, the essential core of the mitochondrial protein insertion
complex, forms a voltage-activated and signal-gated channel.";
"Protein insertion into the mitochondrial inner membrane by a twin-
pore translocase.";
-!- FUNCTION: Essential core component of the TIM22 complex, a complex
    that mediates the import and insertion of multi-pass transmembrane
    proteins, such as mitochondrial carrier family members, into the
    mitochondrial inner membrane. In the TIM22 complex, it constitutes
    the voltage-activated and signal-gated channel. Forms a twin-pore
    translocase that uses the membrane potential as external driving
    force in 2 voltage-dependent steps. Mediates the insertion of
    precursor proteins in a 3 step process. After the precursor is
    tethered to the translocase without losing energy from the
    Delta(psi), 2 energy-requiring steps are needed. First, Delta(psi)
    acts on the precursor protein and promotes its docking in the
    translocase complex. Then, Delta(psi) and an internal signal
    peptide together induce rapid gating transitions in one pore and
    closing of the other pore and drive membrane insertion to
    completion.
-!- SUBUNIT: Component of the TIM22 complex, whose core is composed of
    TIM18, TIM22 and TIM54, associated with the peripheral proteins
    MRS5/TIM12 and the 70 kDa heterohexamer composed of TIM9 and TIM10
    (or TIM8 and TIM13).
-!- INTERACTION:
    P38822:BZZ1; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-9132, EBI-3889;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein. Note=Import into inner membrane
    protein requires TOM20 function.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Tim17/Tim22/Tim23 family.
 GO:0042721; C:mitochondrial inner membrane protein insert...; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0008565; F:protein transporter activity; TAS:SGD.
 GO:0045039; P:protein import into mitochondrial inner mem...; IMP:SGD.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Mitochondrion;
Protein transport; Translocation; Transmembrane; Transport.
THTHREE
