AC   P57744;
Mitochondrial import inner membrane translocase subunit TIM8.
"Complete nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome
X.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Different import pathways through the mitochondrial intermembrane
space for inner membrane proteins.";
"Biogenesis of Tim proteins of the mitochondrial carrier import
pathway: differential targeting mechanisms and crossing over with the
main import pathway.";
"The role of the TIM8-13 complex in the import of Tim23 into
mitochondria.";
"Two intermembrane space TIM complexes interact with different domains
of Tim23p during its import into mitochondria.";
"The essential function of the small Tim proteins in the TIM22 import
pathway does not depend on formation of the soluble 70-kilodalton
complex.";
"The role of the Tim8p-Tim13p complex in a conserved import pathway
for mitochondrial polytopic inner membrane proteins.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mitochondrial intermembrane chaperone that participates
    in the import and insertion of some multi-pass transmembrane
    proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for
    the transfer of beta-barrel precursors from the TOM complex to the
    sorting and assembly machinery (SAM complex) of the outer
    membrane. Acts as a chaperone-like protein that protects the
    hydrophobic precursors from aggregation and guide them through the
    mitochondrial intermembrane space. The TIM8-TIM13 complex is non
    essential and only mediates the import of few proteins under
    precise conditions, while the predominant TIM9-TIM10 70 kDa
    complex is crucial and mediates the import of much more proteins.
    Strictly required for import of TIM23 in some conditions, when a
    low membrane potential exists in the mitochondria.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterohexamer; composed of 3 copies of TIM8 and 3 copies
    of TIM13, named soluble 70 kDa complex. Associates with the TIM22
    complex, whose core is composed of TIM18, TIM22 and TIM54.
    Interacts with the transmembrane regions of multi-pass
    transmembrane proteins in transit.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    peripheral membrane protein; intermembrane side. Note=Import into
    inner membrane protein requires TIM5 function.
-!- DOMAIN: The twin CX3C motif contains 4 conserved Cys residues that
    form 2 disulfide bonds in the mitochondrial intermembrane space.
    However, during the transit of TIM8 from cytoplasm into
    mitochondrion, the Cys residues probably coordinate zinc, thereby
    preventing folding and allowing its transfer across mitochondrial
    outer membrane (Probable).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the small Tim family.
 GO:0042719; C:mitochondrial intermembrane space protein t...; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0008565; F:protein transporter activity; IMP:SGD.
 GO:0045039; P:protein import into mitochondrial inner mem...; IMP:SGD.
Chaperone; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Metal-binding;
Mitochondrion; Protein transport; Translocation; Transport; Zinc.
TMZERO
