AC   Q61290;
Voltage-dependent R-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1E (Voltage-
gated calcium channel subunit alpha Cav2.3) (Calcium channel, L type,
alpha-1 polypeptide, isoform 6) (Brain calcium channel II) (BII).
"Structure and functional characterization of neuronal alpha 1E
calcium channel subtypes.";
"Comprehensive identification of phosphorylation sites in postsynaptic
density preparations.";
-!- FUNCTION: Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the
    entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved
    in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle
    contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression,
    cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1E
    gives rise to R-type calcium currents. R-type calcium channels
    belong to the "high-voltage activated" (HVA) group and are blocked
    by nickel, and partially by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA).
    They are however insensitive to dihydropyridines (DHP), omega-
    conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA), and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-
    Aga-IVA). Calcium channels contaning alpha-1E subunit could be
    involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons which is
    important for information processing.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with EFHC1. Voltage-dependent calcium channels
    are multisubunit complexes, consisting of alpha-1, alpha-2, beta
    and delta subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The channel activity is
    directed by the pore-forming and voltage-sensitive alpha-1
    subunit. In many cases, this subunit is sufficient to generate
    voltage-sensitive calcium channel activity. The auxiliary subunits
    beta and alpha-2/delta linked by a disulfide bridge regulate the
    channel activity.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in neuronal tissues, retina, spleen,
    and pancreatic islet cells.
-!- DOMAIN: Each of the four internal repeats contains five
    hydrophobic transmembrane segments (S1, S2, S3, S5, S6) and one
    positively charged transmembrane segment (S4). S4 segments
    probably represent the voltage-sensor and are characterized by a
    series of positively charged amino acids at every third position.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the calcium channel alpha-1 subunit family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 EF-hand domain.
 GO:0005891; C:voltage-gated calcium channel complex; TAS:MGI.
 GO:0047485; F:protein N-terminus binding; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005245; F:voltage-gated calcium channel activity; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0006816; P:calcium ion transport; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0042593; P:glucose homeostasis; IMP:MGI.
Calcium; Calcium channel; Calcium transport; Glycoprotein;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Repeat;
Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTWENTYFOUR
