AC   P07293;
Voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1S (Voltage-
gated calcium channel subunit alpha Cav1.1) (Calcium channel, L type,
alpha-1 polypeptide, isoform 3, skeletal muscle).
"Primary structure of the receptor for calcium channel blockers from
skeletal muscle.";
"Sequence and expression of mRNAs encoding the alpha 1 and alpha 2
subunits of a DHP-sensitive calcium channel.";
"Calcium channel beta-subunit binds to a conserved motif in the I-II
cytoplasmic linker of the alpha 1-subunit.";
"Identification of a phenylalkylamine binding region within the alpha
1 subunit of skeletal muscle Ca2+ channels.";
"Identification of 1,4-dihydropyridine binding regions within the
alpha 1 subunit of skeletal muscle Ca2+ channels by photoaffinity
labeling with diazipine.";
"Dihydropyridine receptor of L-type Ca2+ channels: identification of
binding domains for [3H](+)-PN200-110 and [3H]azidopine within the
alpha 1 subunit.";
"CAMP-dependent protein kinase rapidly phosphorylates serine-687 of
the skeletal muscle receptor for calcium channel blockers.";
"Activation of purified calcium channels by stoichiometric protein
phosphorylation.";
"A structural requirement for activation of skeletal ryanodine
receptors by peptides of the dihydropyridine receptor II-III loop.";
"Structural analysis of the voltage-dependent calcium channel beta
subunit functional core and its complex with the alpha1 interaction
domain.";
-!- FUNCTION: Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the
    entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved
    in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle
    contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression,
    cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1S
    gives rise to L-type calcium currents. Long-lasting (L-type)
    calcium channels belong to the "high-voltage activated" (HVA)
    group. They are blocked by dihydropyridines (DHP),
    phenylalkylamines, benzothiazepines, and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA
    (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to omega-conotoxin-
    GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA).
    Calcium channels containing the alpha-1S subunit play an important
    role in excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle.
-!- SUBUNIT: Multisubunit complex consisting of alpha-1, alpha-2, beta
    and delta subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The channel activity is
    directed by the pore-forming and voltage-sensitive alpha-1
    subunit. In many cases, this subunit is sufficient to generate
    voltage-sensitive calcium channel activity. The auxiliary subunits
    beta and alpha-2/delta linked by a disulfide bridge regulate the
    channel activity. An additional gamma subunit is present only in
    skeletal muscle L-type channel.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Skeletal muscle specific.
-!- DOMAIN: Each of the four internal repeats contains five
    hydrophobic transmembrane segments (S1, S2, S3, S5, S6) and one
    positively charged transmembrane segment (S4). S4 segments
    probably represent the voltage-sensor and are characterized by a
    series of positively charged amino acids at every third position.
-!- DOMAIN: The loop between repeats II and III interacts with the
    ryanodine receptor, and is therefore important for calcium release
    from the endoplasmic reticulum necessary for muscle contraction.
-!- PTM: The alpha-1S subunit is found in two isoforms in the skeletal
    muscle: a minor form of 212 kDa containing the complete amino acid
    sequence, and a major form of 190 kDa derived from the full-length
    form by post-translational proteolysis close to Phe-1690.
-!- PTM: Both the minor and major forms are phosphorylated in vitro by
    PKA. Phosphorylation by PKA activates the calcium channel.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the calcium channel alpha-1 subunit family.
3D-structure; Calcium; Calcium channel; Calcium transport;
Direct protein sequencing; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Phosphorylation; Polymorphism; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTWENTYFOUR
