AC   P35180;
Mitochondrial import receptor subunit TOM20 (Mitochondrial 20 kDa
outer membrane protein) (Translocase of outer membrane 20 kDa subunit)
(Protein MAS20).
"Functional cooperation of mitochondrial protein import receptors in
yeast.";
"Deletion of the receptor MOM19 strongly impairs import of cleavable
preproteins into Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondria.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome VII.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Preprotein translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane: molecular
dissection and assembly of the general import pore complex.";
"Tom22 is a multifunctional organizer of the mitochondrial preprotein
translocase.";
"Global analysis of protein expression in yeast.";
-!- FUNCTION: Central component of the TOM (translocase of outer
    membrane) receptor complex responsible for the recognition and
    translocation of cytosolically synthesized mitochondrial
    preproteins. Together with TOM22 functions as the transit peptide
    receptor at the surface of the mitochondrion outer membrane and
    facilitates the movement of preproteins into the TOM40
    translocation pore.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms part of the TOM (translocase of outer membrane)
    complex that consists of at least 7 different proteins (TOM5,
    TOM6, TOM7, TOM20, TOM22, TOM40 and TOM70). In the complex
    interacts with TOM22.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial outer membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Present with 5680 molecules/cell.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the Tom20 family.
 GO:0031307; C:integral to mitochondrial outer membrane; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0005742; C:mitochondrial outer membrane translocase co...; TAS:SGD.
 GO:0008565; F:protein transporter activity; IPI:SGD.
 GO:0030150; P:protein import into mitochondrial matrix; IMP:SGD.
Complete proteome; Membrane; Mitochondrion; Outer membrane;
Protein transport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMONE
