AC   P04977; O69258; O70057; Q599G4; Q5EIB9; Q93V22;
Pertussis toxin subunit 1 precursor (PTX S1) (Islet-activating protein
S1) (IAP S1) (NAD-dependent ADP-ribosyltransferase) (EC 2.4.2.-).
"Cloning and sequencing of the pertussis toxin genes: operon structure
and gene duplication.";
"Pertussis toxin gene: nucleotide sequence and genetic organization.";
"A unique sequence of the Bordetella pertussis toxin operon.";
"Polymorphism in the Bordetella pertussis virulence factors
P.69/pertactin and pertussis toxin in The Netherlands: temporal trends
and evidence for vaccine-driven evolution.";
"Intranasal murine model of Bordetella pertussis infection: II.
Sequence variation and protection induced by a tricomponent acellular
vaccine.";
"Temporal trends in circulating Bordetella pertussis strains in
Australia.";
"Bordetella pertussis toxin gene encoding subunit S1.";
"Comparative analysis of the genome sequences of Bordetella pertussis,
Bordetella parapertussis and Bordetella bronchiseptica.";
"Identification of a region in the S1 subunit of pertussis toxin that
is required for enzymatic activity and that contributes to the
formation of a neutralizing antigenic determinant.";
"Identification of an active-site residue in subunit S1 of pertussis
toxin by photocrosslinking to NAD.";
"Role of tryptophan 26 in the NAD glycohydrolase reaction of the S-1
subunit of pertussis toxin.";
"Further analysis of the sequence of the S1 subunit of pertussis
toxin.";
"A proposed mechanism of ADP-ribosylation catalyzed by the pertussis
toxin S1 subunit.";
"Synergistic binding of RNA polymerase and BvgA phosphate to the
pertussis toxin promoter of Bordetella pertussis.";
"Mutations in the S1 subunit of pertussis toxin that affect
secretion.";
"Membrane localization of the S1 subunit of pertussis toxin in
Bordetella pertussis and implications for pertussis toxin secretion.";
"DsbA and DsbC are required for secretion of pertussis toxin by
Bordetella pertussis.";
"Temporal expression of pertussis toxin and Ptl secretion proteins by
Bordetella pertussis.";
"The crystal structure of pertussis toxin.";
"Crystal structure of the pertussis toxin-ATP complex: a molecular
sensor.";
-!- FUNCTION: S1 is an NAD-dependent ADP-ribosyltransferase, which
    plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of B.pertussis causing
    disruption of normal host cellular regulation. It catalyzes the
    ADP-ribosylation of a cysteine in the alpha subunit of host
    heterotrimeric G proteins. In the absence of G proteins it also
    catalyzes the cleavage of NAD(+) into ADP-ribose and nicotinamide.
    It irreversibly uncouples the G-alpha GTP-binding proteins from
    their membrane receptors.
-!- SUBUNIT: Pertussis toxin contains five different chains, S1-S5.
    They are organized into 2 functional subunits: A, composed of S1
    (which is toxic) and B, containing S2, S3, S5, and two copies of
    S4 (B binds to the membrane receptors). Dimers of S2-S4 and S3-S4
    are held together by S5.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=The individual chains
    are secreted by a sec-dependent mechanism into the periplasm.
    Then, S1 associates with the outer membrane before it joins with
    the B subunit to form the secretion-competent holotoxin. The type
    IV secretion system ptl mediates secretion of assembled toxin
    through the outer membrane.
-!- INDUCTION: Activated by the two-component regulatory system
    bvgS/bvgA.
-!- DOMAIN: The region which spans amino-acids 42-49 is required for
    enzymatic activity and contributes to the formation of a
    potentially important antigenic determinant.
-!- PHARMACEUTICAL: Currently used in vaccines available under the
    names Daptacel (Sanofi Pasteur), Infanrix (GlaxoSmithKline),
    Pediarix (GlaxoSmithKline), TriHIBit (Sanofi Pasteur) and Tripedia
    (Sanofi Pasteur).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Thiol:disulfide oxidoreductases dsbA and dsbB are
    required for periplasmic toxin assembly, whereas dbsC is important
    for extracellular toxin secretion.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Experiments with temporal expression of PTX
    indicate that holotoxin secretion is at a rate of 3
    molecules/min/cell. Also, more of toxin chains S1, S2 and S3 are
    produced than secreted; one half of each chain is incorporated
    into holotoxin.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the bacterial exotoxin subunit A family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Glycosyltransferase; NAD; Pharmaceutical; Signal; Toxin; Transferase;
Virulence; Whooping cough.
TMZERO
