AC   Q62962; O55163;
Amiloride-sensitive cation channel 1, neuronal (Amiloride-sensitive
brain sodium channel) (Amiloride-sensitive brain sodium channel 2)
(Amiloride-sensitive cation channel neuronal 1) (Acid-sensing ion
channel 2) (Brain sodium channel 1) (BNaC1) (BNC1) (Mammalian
degenerin homolog) (MDEG).
"The mammalian degenerin MDEG, an amiloride-sensitive cation channel
activated by mutations causing neurodegeneration in Caenorhabditis
elegans.";
"A modulatory subunit of acid sensing ion channels in brain and dorsal
root ganglion cells.";
"The acid-sensitive ionic channel subunit ASIC and the mammalian
degenerin MDEG form a heteromultimeric H+-gated Na+ channel with novel
properties.";
"Zn2+ and H+ are coactivators of acid-sensing ion channels.";
"Nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit both the activity and the
inflammation-induced expression of acid-sensing ion channels in
nociceptors.";
"Functional implications of the localization and activity of acid-
sensitive channels in rat peripheral nervous system.";
"ASIC2b-dependent regulation of ASIC3, an essential acid-sensing ion
channel subunit in sensory neurons via the partner protein PICK-1.";
"Analysis of the membrane topology of the acid-sensing ion channel
2a.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cation channel with high affinity for sodium, which is
    gated by extracellular protons and inhibited by the diuretic
    amiloride. Also permeable for Li(+) and K(+). Activation by an
    extracellular pH drop is followed by a rapid pH-independent
    inactivation. Heteromeric channel assembly seems to modulate
    channel properties.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer or heterotetramer with other ASIC proteins
    (Probable). Interacts with PRKCABP and STOM (By similarity).
    Interacts with ACCN2. Isoform 2 interacts with ACCN3.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
    Note=Localized at the plasma membrane of neurons, in the soma and
    punctated peripheral processes.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1; Synonyms=Mdeg1, Asic2a;
      IsoId=Q62962-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Mdeg2, Asic2b;
      IsoId=Q62962-2; Sequence=VSP_015594, VSP_015595;
      Note=Seems to be inactive as monomer or in a monomeric assembly
      and is not activated by mutagenesis of Gly-430. Mutagenesis of
      Ser-60 into Gly reduces activation by PKC through PRKCABP/PICK-1
      of a ACCN3/ASIC3-ACCN1/ASIC2b channel;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in sciatic nerve and dorsal root
    ganglion (DRG) (at protein level). Both isoforms display the same
    expression pattern except in DRG where isoform 2 is more
    abundantly expressed. Widely distributed throughout the brain.
    Highly expressed in the main olfactory bulb, neo- and allo-
    cortical regions, hippocampal formation, habenula, basolateral
    amygdaloid nuclei, and cerebellum. In the olfactory system,
    expressed in the glomerular cell layer, the internal granular
    layer, and the mitral and internal plexiform cell layers. Within
    the glomerular layer, restricted to the periglomerular cells. In
    the neocortex, strongly expressed in the large pyramidal neurons
    in all cortical layers as well as in the oligo-, astro-, or micro-
    glia cells. In the hippocampal formation, expressed in dentate
    granule cells and hilar neurons, as well as in pyramidal cells of
    CA1-CA3 subfields. Expressed in stratum oriens and radiatum of all
    subfields. Within the thalamus, expressed moderately in the medial
    and lateral habenula. In the cerebellar cortex expressed in
    Purkinje cells and granule cells. Expressed at low levels in
    choroid plexus.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Appears just before birth, reaches maximum
    levels after birth, then declines slightly until adulthood.
-!- INDUCTION: Up-regulation upon tissues inflammation is abolished by
    anti-inflammatory drugs.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Regulated by Zn(2+). Inhibited by anti-inflammatory
    drugs like salicylic acid.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
 GO:0015280; F:amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0005248; F:voltage-gated sodium channel activity; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0006812; P:cation transport; TAS:RGD.
 GO:0001101; P:response to acid; IMP:RGD.
 GO:0019233; P:sensory perception of pain; IPI:RGD.
 GO:0050915; P:sensory perception of sour taste; TAS:RGD.
 GO:0006814; P:sodium ion transport; IDA:RGD.
Alternative splicing; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Sodium; Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWO
