AC   Q8BLA8;
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily A member 1
(Ankyrin-like with transmembrane domains protein 1).
"ANKTM1, a TRP-like channel expressed in nociceptive neurons, is
activated by cold temperatures.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"TRPA1 is a candidate for the mechanosensitive transduction channel of
vertebrate hair cells.";
"Cold-sensitive, menthol-insensitive neurons in the murine sympathetic
nervous system.";
"Noxious cold ion channel TRPA1 is activated by pungent compounds and
bradykinin.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor-activated non-selective cation channel involved
    in detection of sensations such as cold, pain or sounds
    perception. Involved in cold nociception by being activated by
    cold temperature below 17 degrees Celsius, which is close to the
    noxious cold threshold. Not involved in menthol sensation. Also
    involved in pain sensation triggered by mustard oil or capsaicin,
    the pungent ingredient in chilli peppers, by being activated by
    these products. Also acts as a ionotropic cannabinoid receptor by
    being activated by delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the
    psychoactive component of marijuana. May be a component for the
    mechanosensitive transduction channel of hair cells in inner ear,
    thereby participating in the perception of sounds. Probably
    operated by a phosphatidylinositol second messenger system.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in inner ear. In inner ear, it is
    found in the distal half of stereocilia, along the length of the
    kinocilium and at high level in the pericuticular zone (at protein
    level). Specifically expressed in a subset of nociceptive neurons.
    Expressed in the same neurons that TRPV1. In contrast, it is not
    expressed in neurons expressing TRPM8. Expressed in the superior
    cervical ganglion.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: During utricle development, it is first
    expressed at E15 and E16 and peaks at E17. It drops at E18 but
    increases again at E19, possibly corresponding to a second wave of
    hair cells that are generated at E15.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Inhibited by ruthenium red, a potent blocker of
    TRPV channels.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the transient receptor family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 14 ANK repeats.
 GO:0005262; F:calcium channel activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0009409; P:response to cold; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0050955; P:thermoception; IDA:MGI.
ANK repeat; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane;
Repeat; Sensory transduction; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
