AC   P55926; O88762; Q91YB8; Q99NA1;
Amiloride-sensitive cation channel 2, neuronal (Acid-sensing ion
channel 1) (ASIC1) (Brain sodium channel 2) (BNaC2).
"A proton-gated cation channel involved in acid-sensing.";
"A sensory neuron-specific, proton-gated ion channel.";
"Molecular and functional characterization of acid-sensing ion channel
(ASIC) 1b.";
"Cloning and functional expression of ASIC-beta2, a splice variant of
ASIC-beta.";
"The acid-sensitive ionic channel subunit ASIC and the mammalian
degenerin MDEG form a heteromultimeric H+-gated Na+ channel with novel
properties.";
"Isolation of a tarantula toxin specific for a class of proton-gated
Na+ channels.";
"Neuropeptide FF and FMRFamide potentiate acid-evoked currents from
sensory neurons and proton-gated DEG/ENaC channels.";
"Nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit both the activity and the
inflammation-induced expression of acid-sensing ion channels in
nociceptors.";
"Alternative splicing and interaction with di- and polyvalent cations
control the dynamic range of acid-sensing ion channel 1 (ASIC1).";
"Functional implications of the localization and activity of acid-
sensitive channels in rat peripheral nervous system.";
"The extracellular domain determines the kinetics of desensitization
in acid-sensitive ion channel 1.";
"Neuroprotection in ischemia: blocking calcium-permeable acid-sensing
ion channels.";
"Identification of the Ca2+ blocking site of acid-sensing ion channel
(ASIC) 1: implications for channel gating.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cation channel with high affinity for sodium, which is
    gated by extracellular protons and inhibited by the diuretic
    amiloride. Also permeable for Ca(2+), Li(+) and K(+). Generates a
    biphasic current with a fast inactivating and a slow sustained
    phase. Isoform 3 discrimates stronger than isoform 1 between
    monovalent cations. Isoform 3 can flux Ca(2+) while isoform 1
    cannot. Heteromeric channels composed of isoform 2 and isoform 3
    are active but have a lower pH-sensitivity. Mediates glutamate-
    independent Ca(2+) entry into neurons upon acidosis. This Ca(2+)
    overloading is toxic for cortical neurons and may be in part
    responsible for ischemic brain injury. Heteromeric channel
    assembly seems to modulate channel properties.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer or heterotetramer with other ASIC proteins
    (Probable). Interacts with STOM and PRKCABP (By similarity).
    Interacts with ACCN1.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (By similarity). Note=Localizes in synaptosomes at dendritic
    synapses of neurons. Colocalizes with DLG4 (By similarity).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1; Synonyms=ASIC-alpha, asic1alpha;
      IsoId=P55926-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=ASIC-beta2;
      IsoId=P55926-2; Sequence=VSP_015597, VSP_015598;
      Note=Inactive;
    Name=3; Synonyms=ASIC-beta, ASIC1b;
      IsoId=P55926-3; Sequence=VSP_015597, VSP_015599;
      Note=Ref.2 (CAA07080) isoform 2 sequence differs from that shown
      due to frameshifts in position 7 and 14. Ref.2 (CAA07080)
      sequence is in conflict in position: 128:T->S. Blocked by
      Ca(2+). Mutagenesis of Asp-465 to Asn reduces Ca(2+) block;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in dorsal root ganglia and sciatic
    nerve (at protein level). Widely distributed throughout the brain.
    Expressed in olfactory bulb, neo and allocortical regions, dentate
    granule cells, pyramidal cells of CA1-CA3 subfields of the
    hippocampal formation, habenula, basolateral amygdaloid nuclei,
    and in the Purkinje and granule cells of the cerebellum. Diffusely
    detected over most other regions of the basal ganglia, including
    thalamic nuclei, substantia nigra, striatum and globus pallidus,
    hypothalamus, midbrain, pons, medulla and choroid plexus. Isoform
    3 is expressed only in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) while isoform 1
    is expressed in DRG, spinal chord, trigeminal ganglia and the
    trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus.
-!- INDUCTION: Up-regulation upon tissues inflammation is abolished by
    anti-inflammatory drugs.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation by PKA regulates interaction with PRKCABP and
    subcellular location. Phosphorylation by PKC may regulate the
    channel (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Potentiated by Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Ba(2+), multivalent
    cations and potentiated by FMRFamide-related neuropeptides. PH
    dependence may be regulated by serine proteases. Inhibited by
    anti-inflammatory drugs like salicylic acid. Isoform 1
    homomultimeric channel is specifically and reversibly inhibited by
    PcTX1, a tarantula venom toxin, while isoform 2 and other ASICs
    are insensitive.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
 GO:0005216; F:ion channel activity; IDA:RGD.
 GO:0019233; P:sensory perception of pain; NAS:RGD.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Calcium transport; Glycoprotein;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Sodium;
Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
