AC   O35240;
Amiloride-sensitive cation channel 3 (Acid-sensing ion channel 3)
(ASIC3) (Dorsal root ASIC) (DRASIC).
"Molecular cloning of a non-inactivating proton-gated Na+ channel
specific for sensory neurons.";
"A modulatory subunit of acid sensing ion channels in brain and dorsal
root ganglion cells.";
"A sensory neuron-specific, proton-gated ion channel.";
"The pre-transmembrane 1 domain of acid-sensing ion channels
participates in the ion pore.";
"Mammalian ASIC2a and ASIC3 subunits co-assemble into heteromeric
proton-gated channels sensitive to Gd3+.";
"Nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit both the activity and the
inflammation-induced expression of acid-sensing ion channels in
nociceptors.";
"Lactate enhances the acid-sensing Na+ channel on ischemia-sensing
neurons.";
"Selective modulation of heteromeric ASIC proton-gated channels by
neuropeptide FF.";
"Acid-sensing ion channel 3 matches the acid-gated current in cardiac
ischemia-sensing neurons.";
"Proinflammatory mediators, stimulators of sensory neuron excitability
via the expression of acid-sensing ion channels.";
"Functional implications of the localization and activity of acid-
sensitive channels in rat peripheral nervous system.";
"How nerve growth factor drives physiological and inflammatory
expressions of acid-sensing ion channel 3 in sensory neurons.";
"Protons open acid-sensing ion channels by catalyzing relief of Ca2+
blockade.";
"Effects of neuropeptide SF and related peptides on acid sensing ion
channel 3 and sensory neuron excitability.";
"A new sea anemone peptide, APETx2, inhibits ASIC3, a major acid-
sensitive channel in sensory neurons.";
"ASIC2b-dependent regulation of ASIC3, an essential acid-sensing ion
channel subunit in sensory neurons via the partner protein PICK-1.";
"PSD-95 and Lin-7b interact with acid-sensing ion channel-3 and have
opposite effects on H+- gated current.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cation channel with high affinity for sodium, which is
    gated by extracellular protons and inhibited by the diuretic
    amiloride. Generates a biphasic current with a fast inactivating
    and a slow sustained phase. In sensory neurons is proposed to
    mediate the pain induced by acidosis that occurs in ischemic,
    damaged or inflamed tissue. May be involved in hyperalgesia. May
    play a role in mechanoreception. Heteromeric channel assembly
    seems to modulate channel properties.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer or heterotetramer with other ASIC proteins
    (Probable). Interacts with STOM, LIN7B, MAGI1 and GOPC (By
    similarity). Interacts with DLG4 and ACCN1.
-!- INTERACTION:
    Q9JJ19:Slc9a3r1; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-982374, EBI-982391;
    Q920G2:Slc9a3r2; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-982374, EBI-982439;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (By similarity). Cell membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein (By similarity). Note=In part
    cytoplasmic in cochlea cells (By similarity). Cell surface
    expression may be stabilized by interaction with LIN7B and
    cytoplasmic retention by interaction with DLG4.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in sciatic nerve and dorsal root
    ganglion (at protein level). Expressed in sensory neurons of
    dorsal root ganglion. Expressed in Golgi interneurons in the
    granular layer. Also found in superior cervical ganglia, spinal
    chord and brain stem.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expression is first detected at E15.5.
    Strongly expressed perinatally.
-!- INDUCTION: Transcriptionally regulated by the proinflamatory
    mediators nerve growth factor, serotonin, interleukin-1 and
    bradykinin. Up-regulation upon tissues inflammation is abolished
    by anti-inflammatory drugs.
-!- DOMAIN: The PDZ domain-binding motif is involved in interaction
    with LIN7A, GOPC and MAGI1/BAIAP1 (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by PKA (By similarity). Phosphorylated by PKC.
    In vitro, PRKCABP/PICK-1 is necessary for PKC phosphorylation and
    activation of a ACCN3/ASIC3-ACCN1/ASIC2b channel, but does not
    activate a homomeric ACCN3/ASIC3 channel.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Potentiated by FMRFamide-related neuropeptides (By
    similarity). Sensitized and potentiated by NPFF and NPSF.
    Regulated by lactate and Ca(2+). Specifically inhibited by APETx2,
    a sea anemone toxin. Inhibited by anti-inflammatory drugs like
    salicylic acid.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0015280; F:amiloride-sensitive sodium channel activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0001101; P:response to acid; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0006814; P:sodium ion transport; IDA:MGI.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Sodium; Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
