AC   Q7Z2W7; Q6QNH9; Q8TAC3; Q8TDX8; Q9BVK1;
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8
(Transient receptor potential-p8) (Trp-p8) (Long transient receptor
potential channel 6) (LTrpC6).
"Trp-p8, a novel prostate-specific gene, is up-regulated in prostate
cancer and other malignancies and shares high homology with transient
receptor potential calcium channel proteins.";
"Characterization of heterologous expressed human TRPM8 channel in
HEK293 cells.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Molecular cloning of a novel member of LTRP channel family, LTRPC6.";
"Identification of an HLA-A*0201-restricted T-cell epitope derived
from the prostate cancer-associated protein trp-p8.";
"The principle of temperature-dependent gating in cold- and heat-
sensitive TRP channels.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor-activated non-selective cation channel involved
    in detection of sensations such as coolness, by being activated by
    cold temperature below 25 degrees Celsius. Activated by icilin,
    eucalyptol, menthol, cold and modulation of intracellular pH.
    Involved in menthol sensation. Permeable for monovalent cations
    sodium, potassium, and cesium and divalent cation calcium.
    Temperature sensing is tightly linked to voltage-dependent gating.
    Activated upon depolarization, changes in temperature resulting in
    graded shifts of its voltage-dependent activation curves. The
    chemical agonists menthol functions as a gating modifier, shifting
    activation curves towards physiological membrane potentials.
    Temperature sensitivity arises from a tenfold difference in the
    activation energies associated with voltage-dependent opening and
    closing.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q7Z2W7-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Beta;
      IsoId=Q7Z2W7-2; Sequence=VSP_012331, VSP_012332, VSP_012333;
    Name=3; Synonyms=Alpha;
      IsoId=Q7Z2W7-3; Sequence=VSP_012330, VSP_012332, VSP_012333;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in prostate. Also expressed in most
    in prostate tumors. Also expressed in non-prostatic primary tumors
    such as colon, lung, breast and skin tumors.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The sensation of coolness triggered by eucalyptol
    or menthol may be explained by the fact that menthol and cool
    temperatures sensations are detected by this protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Its expression in most prostate tumors as well as
    the presence of an immunogenic epitope suggest that it may be
    suitable for the design of peptide vaccination strategies for
    prostate cancers.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the transient receptor family. LTrpC
    subfamily.
Alternative splicing; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane;
Sensory transduction; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
