AC   Q96QT4; Q6ZMF5; Q86VJ4; Q8NBW2; Q9BXB2; Q9NXQ2;
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 7
(EC 2.7.11.1) (Long transient receptor potential channel 7) (LTrpC7)
(Channel-kinase 1).
"LTRPC7 is a Mg.ATP-regulated divalent cation channel required for
cell viability.";
"Characterization of the protein kinase activity of TRPM7/ChaK1, a
protein kinase fused to the transient receptor potential ion
channel.";
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Regulation of vertebrate cellular Mg2+ homeostasis by TRPM7.";
"Phosphorylation of annexin I by TRPM7 channel-kinase.";
"Disruption of TRPM6/TRPM7 complex formation by a mutation in the
TRPM6 gene causes hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia.";
-!- FUNCTION: Essential ion channel and serine/threonine-protein
    kinase. Divalent cation channel permeable to calcium and
    magnesium. Has a central role in magnesium ion homeostasis and in
    the regulation of anoxic neuronal cell death. The kinase activity
    is essential for the channel function. May be involved in a
    fundamental process that adjusts plasma membrane divalent cation
    fluxes according to the metabolic state of the cell.
    Phosphorylates annexin A1 (ANXA1).
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + a protein = ADP + a phosphoprotein.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 zinc ion per subunit (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer (By similarity). Forms heterodimers with TRPM6.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- PTM: Autophosphorylated (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: In the N-terminal section; belongs to the transient
    receptor family. LTrpC subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 alpha-type protein kinase domain.
ATP-binding; Calcium; Calcium channel; Calcium transport;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Kinase; Membrane; Metal-binding;
Nucleotide-binding; Phosphorylation; Polymorphism;
Serine/threonine-protein kinase; Transferase; Transmembrane;
Transport; Zinc.
TMSIX
