AC   O35433; Q920B3; Q920B4; Q9JLM0; Q9JM56; Q9JM57;
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1
(TrpV1) (osm-9-like TRP channel 1) (OTRPC1) (Vanilloid receptor 1)
(Vanilloid receptor type 1-like) (Capsaicin receptor).
"The capsaicin receptor: a heat-activated ion channel in the pain
pathway.";
"Molecular cloning of an N-terminal splice variant of the capsaicin
receptor. Loss of N-terminal domain suggests functional divergence
among capsaicin receptor subtypes.";
"Propofol activates vanilloid receptor channels expressed in human
embryonic kidney 293 cells.";
"The genomic organization of the gene encoding the vanilloid receptor:
evidence for multiple splice variants.";
"Identification of an aspartic residue in the P-loop of the vanilloid
receptor that modulates pore properties.";
"Induction of vanilloid receptor channel activity by protein kinase
C.";
"Biochemical characterization of the vanilloid receptor 1 expressed in
a dorsal root ganglia derived cell line.";
"Bradykinin and nerve growth factor release the capsaicin receptor
from PtdIns(4,5)P2-mediated inhibition.";
"Direct phosphorylation of capsaicin receptor VR1 by protein kinase
Cepsilon and identification of two target serine residues.";
"Protein kinase C(alpha) is required for vanilloid receptor 1
activation. Evidence for multiple signaling pathways.";
"cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulates desensitization of the
capsaicin receptor (VR1) by direct phosphorylation.";
"Structural determinant of TRPV1 desensitization interacts with
calmodulin.";
"Protein kinase C phosphorylation sensitizes but does not activate the
capsaicin receptor transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1).";
"A modular PIP2 binding site as a determinant of capsaicin receptor
sensitivity.";
"Modulation of TRPV1 by nonreceptor tyrosine kinase, c-Src kinase.";
"Agonist recognition sites in the cytosolic tails of vanilloid
receptor 1.";
"Phosphorylation of vanilloid receptor 1 by Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent
kinase II regulates its vanilloid binding.";
"Molecular determinants of vanilloid sensitivity in TRPV1.";
"TRPV1 acts as proton channel to induce acidification in nociceptive
neurons.";
"Interaction between protein kinase Cmu and the vanilloid receptor
type 1.";
"Identification of a tetramerization domain in the C-terminus of the
vanilloid receptor.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor-activated non-selective calcium permeant cation
    channel involved in detection of noxious chemical and thermal
    stimuli. Seems to mediate proton influx and may be involved in
    intracellular acidosis in nociceptive neurons. May be involved in
    mediation of inflammatory pain and hyperalgesia. Sensitized by a
    phosphatidylinositol second messenger system activated by receptor
    tyrosine kinases, which involves PKC isozymes and PCL. Activation
    by vanilloids, like capsaicin, and temperatures higher than 42
    degrees Celsius, exhibits a time- and Ca(2+)-dependent outward
    rectification, followed by a long-lasting refractory state. Mild
    extracellular acidic pH (6.5) potentiates channel activation by
    noxious heat and vanilloids, whereas acidic conditions (pH <6)
    directly activate the channel. Can be activated by endogenous
    compounds, including 12-hydroperoxytetraenoic acid, and
    endocannabinoids, like anandamide, and bradykinin.
-!- SUBUNIT: Self-associates. Probably homotetramer. May also form a
    heteromeric channel with TRPV3. Interacts with calmodulin, PRKCM
    and CSK. Interacts with PRKCG and NTRK1, probably by forming a
    trimeric complex.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1; Synonyms=VR1L1;
      IsoId=O35433-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=VR1L2;
      IsoId=O35433-2; Sequence=VSP_013432;
    Name=3; Synonyms=VR.5'sv;
      IsoId=O35433-3; Sequence=VSP_013431, VSP_013432;
      Note=Inactive;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Predominantly expressed in trigeminal and
    dorsal root sensory ganglia. Isoform 1 and isoform 3 are also
    expressed in brain and peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
-!- DOMAIN: The association domain (AD) is necessary for self-
    association.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation by PKA reverses capsaicin-induced
    dephosphorylation at multiple sites, probably including Ser-116 as
    a major phosphorylation site. Phoshphorylation by CAMKII seems to
    regulate binding to vanilloids. Phosphorylated and modulated by
    PKCM and probably PKCZ. Dephosphorylation by calcineurin seems to
    lead to receptor desensitization and phosphorylation by CAMKII
    recovers activity.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Responses evoked by capsaicin, but not by low pH
    and heat, can be antagonized by capsazepine.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the transient receptor family. TrpV
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 ANK repeats.
Alternative splicing; ANK repeat; Calcium; Calcium channel;
Calcium transport; Calmodulin-binding; Glycoprotein; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMSIX
