AC   P19334; Q7YU76; Q9VAE1;
Transient receptor potential protein.
"Molecular characterization of the Drosophila trp locus: a putative
integral membrane protein required for phototransduction.";
"Proper function of the Drosophila trp gene product during pupal
development is important for normal visual transduction in the
adult.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"Overlapping transcription units in the transient receptor potential
locus of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"TRP, a protein essential for inositide-mediated Ca2+ influx is
localized adjacent to the calcium stores in Drosophila
photoreceptors.";
"Coassembly of TRP and TRPL produces a distinct store-operated
conductance.";
"Requirement for the PDZ domain protein, INAD, for localization of the
TRP store-operated channel to a signaling complex.";
"Olfactory adaptation depends on the Trp Ca2+ channel in Drosophila.";
"Polyunsaturated fatty acids activate the Drosophila light-sensitive
channels TRP and TRPL.";
"Reversible phosphorylation of the signal transduction complex in
Drosophila photoreceptors.";
"TRP and the PDZ protein, INAD, form the core complex required for
retention of the signalplex in Drosophila photoreceptor cells.";
"Novel mechanism of massive photoreceptor degeneration caused by
mutations in the trp gene of Drosophila.";
"Metabolic stress reversibly activates the Drosophila light-sensitive
channels TRP and TRPL in vivo.";
"TRPgamma, a Drosophila TRP-related subunit, forms a regulated cation
channel with TRPL.";
"Single amino acid change in the fifth transmembrane segment of the
TRP Ca2+ channel causes massive degeneration of photoreceptors.";
"Phototransduction in Drosophila melanogaster.";
-!- FUNCTION: A light-sensitive calcium channel that is required for
    inositide-mediated Ca(2+) entry in the retina during phospholipase
    C (PLC)-mediated phototransduction. Ca(2+) influx may then feed
    back and inhibit PLC, thereby facilitating phosphatidylinositol
    4,5 bisphosphate (PIP2) recycling. Trp and trpl act together in
    the light response, though it is unclear whether as
    heteromultimers or as distinct units, and are activated by fatty
    acids and metabolic stress. Also required for olfactory adaptation
    and may be involved in olfactory system development.
-!- SUBUNIT: The C-terminus interacts with a PDZ domain of inaD to
    form the core of the inaD signaling complex. Other members of the
    complex include norpA (PLC), inaC (PKC), and possibly trpl, ninaC,
    FKBP59, calmodulin and rhodopsin. Forms homomultimers and
    heteromultimers with trpl. Interaction with trpl is mediated in
    part by the N-terminal region and the transmembrane domains. Also
    interacts, though to a lower extent, with trp-gamma.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable). Note=Localized on plasma membrane loops found at the
    base of the rhabdomere, in close proximity to the calcium stores.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed predominantly in the rhabdomeres of
    photoreceptor cells. Expressed in the third antennal segment and
    in the olfactory segment at approximately 70 hours after puparium
    formation during antennal development.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by inaC.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the transient receptor family. STrpC
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ANK repeats.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.5 sequence differs from that shown due to a
    frameshift in position 721.
 GO:0016027; C:inaD signaling complex; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0016021; C:integral to membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005516; F:calmodulin binding; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0005218; F:intracellular ligand-gated calcium channel ...; NAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0046982; F:protein heterodimerization activity; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0042803; F:protein homodimerization activity; IPI:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015279; F:store-operated calcium channel activity; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0006816; P:calcium ion transport; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019722; P:calcium-mediated signaling; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0050908; P:detection of light stimulus during visual p...; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008377; P:light-induced release of internally sequest...; IDA:FlyBase.
 GO:0008355; P:olfactory learning; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0030845; P:phospholipase C inhibition; IMP:FlyBase.
 GO:0008104; P:protein localization; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0009416; P:response to light stimulus; IMP:UniProtKB.
ANK repeat; Calcium; Calcium channel; Calcium transport;
Complete proteome; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Olfaction;
Repeat; Sensory transduction; Transmembrane; Transport; Vision.
TMSIX
