AC   P13272; P07588; Q1LZH6;
Ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase iron-sulfur subunit, mitochondrial
precursor (EC 1.10.2.2) (Rieske iron-sulfur protein) (RISP) [Contains:
Ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase 8 kDa protein (Complex III subunit
IX)].
"Cloning and sequencing of a cDNA encoding the Rieske iron-sulfur
protein of bovine heart mitochondrial ubiquinol-cytochrome c
reductase.";
"The mitochondrial targeting presequence of the Rieske iron-sulfur
protein is processed in a single step after insertion into the
cytochrome bc1 complex in mammals and retained as a subunit in the
complex.";
"Isolation and amino acid sequence of the 8 kDa DCCD-binding protein
of beef heart ubiquinol:cytochrome c reductase.";
"Isolation and amino acid sequence of the 'Rieske' iron sulfur protein
of beef heart ubiquinol:cytochrome c reductase.";
"Structure of a water soluble fragment of the 'Rieske' iron-sulfur
protein of the bovine heart mitochondrial cytochrome bc1 complex
determined by MAD phasing at 1.5-A resolution.";
"Crystal structure of the cytochrome bc1 complex from bovine heart
mitochondria.";
"Complete structure of the 11-subunit bovine mitochondrial cytochrome
bc1 complex.";
-!- FUNCTION: Component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase
    complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is a
    respiratory chain that generates an electrochemical potential
    coupled to ATP synthesis.
-!- FUNCTION: The transit peptide of the Rieske protein seems to form
    part of the bc1 complex in beef and is considered to be the
    subunit IX of that complex.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: QH(2) + 2 ferricytochrome c = Q + 2
    ferrocytochrome c.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 2Fe-2S cluster per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: The bc1 complex contains 11 subunits; 3 respiratory
    subunits (cytochrome b, cytochrome c1, Rieske protein), 2 core
    proteins and 6 low-molecular weight proteins.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The Rieske protein is a high potential 2Fe-2S
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Rieske domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 (AAA30515) sequence differs from that shown due to
    several frameshifts. Frameshifts and probable sequencing errors
    occur in the region of the transit peptide (1-78).
2Fe-2S; 3D-structure; Direct protein sequencing; Electron transport;
Inner membrane; Iron; Iron-sulfur; Membrane; Metal-binding;
Mitochondrion; Oxidoreductase; Respiratory chain; Transit peptide;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMZERO
