AC   P08067;
Ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase iron-sulfur subunit, mitochondrial
precursor (EC 1.10.2.2) (Complex III subunit RIP1) (Cytochrome b-c1
complex subunit RIP1) (Rieske iron-sulfur protein) (RISP).
"Isolation and characterization of the nuclear gene encoding the
Rieske iron-sulfur protein (RIP1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Mutational analysis of the mitochondrial Rieske iron-sulfur protein
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. I. Construction of a RIP1 deletion strain
and isolation of temperature-sensitive mutants.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome V.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Mutational analysis of the mitochondrial Rieske iron-sulfur protein
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. III. Import, protease processing, and
assembly into the cytochrome bc1 complex of iron-sulfur protein
lacking the iron-sulfur cluster.";
"Structure and function of the mitochondrial bc1 complex. A mutational
analysis of the yeast Rieske iron-sulfur protein.";
"Structure at 2.3 A resolution of the cytochrome bc1 complex from the
yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae co-crystallized with an antibody Fv
fragment.";
"Crystal structure of the yeast cytochrome bc1 complex with its bound
substrate cytochrome c.";
-!- FUNCTION: Component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase
    complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of
    the mitochondrial respiratory chain that generates an
    electrochemical potential coupled to ATP synthesis. The complex
    couples electron transfer from ubiquinol to cytochrome c.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: QH(2) + 2 ferricytochrome c = Q + 2
    ferrocytochrome c.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 2Fe-2S cluster per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: Fungi cytochrome b-c1 complex contains 10 subunits; 3
    respiratory subunits, 2 core proteins and 5 low-molecular weight
    proteins. Cytochrome b-c1 complex is a homodimer.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The Rieske protein is a high potential 2Fe-2S
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Rieske domain.
 GO:0005750; C:respiratory chain complex III (sensu Eukary...; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0008121; F:ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0009060; P:aerobic respiration; IMP:SGD.
 GO:0006122; P:mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol...; IDA:SGD.
2Fe-2S; 3D-structure; Complete proteome; Electron transport;
Inner membrane; Iron; Iron-sulfur; Membrane; Metal-binding;
Mitochondrion; Oxidoreductase; Respiratory chain; Transit peptide;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMZERO
