AC   P69822; P39302; Q2M6B1;
Ascorbate-specific phosphotransferase enzyme IIB component
(EC 2.7.1.69) (Ascorbate-specific PTS system EIIB component).
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome VI: DNA sequence of the
region from 92.8 through 100 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Novel phosphotransferases system genes revealed by bacterial genome
analysis: operons encoding homologues of sugar-specific permease
domains of the phosphotransferase system and pentose catabolic
enzymes.";
"The gene yjfQ encodes the repressor of the yjfR-X regulon (ula),
which is involved in L-ascorbate metabolism in Escherichia coli.";
"The ascorbate transporter of Escherichia coli.";
"Regulation of expression of the divergent ulaG and ulaABCDEF operons
involved in L-ascorbate dissimilation in Escherichia coli.";
-!- FUNCTION: The phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent sugar
    phosphotransferase system (PTS), a major carbohydrate active-
    transport system, catalyzes the phosphorylation of incoming sugar
    substrates concomitant with their translocation across the cell
    membrane. This system is involved in ascorbate transport.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein EIIB N(pi)-phospho-L-
    histidine/cysteine + sugar = protein EIIB + sugar phosphate.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P0A6Y8:dnaK; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-1113922, EBI-542092;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm (Potential).
-!- INDUCTION: Induced by L-ascorbate. Repressed by ulaR.
-!- DOMAIN: The EIIB domain is phosphorylated by phospho-EIIA on a
    cysteinyl or histidyl residue, depending on the transported sugar.
    Then, it transfers the phosphoryl group to the sugar substrate
    concomitantly with the sugar uptake processed by the EIIC domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 PTS EIIB type-2 domain.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
Complete proteome; Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferase system;
Transferase; Transport.
TMZERO
