AC   Q09068; Q8VN83; Q8VN86; Q8VN88; Q8VN89; Q9S0Q4;
Acid-activated urea channel (Urease accessory protein ureI).
"Expression of Helicobacter pylori urease genes in Escherichia coli
grown under nitrogen-limiting conditions.";
"Identification of the urease operon in Helicobacter pylori and its
control by mRNA decay in response to pH.";
"Recombination and mutation during long-term gastric colonization by
Helicobacter pylori: estimates of clock rates, recombination size and
minimal age.";
"The complete genome sequence of the gastric pathogen Helicobacter
pylori.";
"The Helicobacter pylori UreI protein is not involved in urease
activity but is essential for bacterial survival in vivo.";
"A H+-gated urea channel: the link between Helicobacter pylori urease
and gastric colonization.";
"Sites of pH regulation of the urea channel of Helicobacter pylori.";
"The Helicobacter pylori UreI protein: role in adaptation to acidity
and identification of residues essential for its activity and for acid
activation.";
"Interactions among the seven Helicobacter pylori proteins encoded by
the urease gene cluster.";
-!- FUNCTION: Functions as a specific, H(+)-activated urea channel
    that increases the rate of urea entry into the cytoplasm,
    resulting in activation of cytoplasmic urease at acidic medium pH.
    Is essential for H.pylori gastric survival and colonization. Is
    necessary for the adaptation of urease activity to the
    extracellular pH, as in the presence of urea, ureI rapidly
    enhances the production of ammonia in the extracellular medium
    when the pH of the medium was decreased to pH5 or below.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms a membrane complex with the urease ureA/ureB.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: UreI-mediated transport is urea-specific, passive,
    non-saturable, non-electrogenic, and temperature independent.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiS/ureI family.
-!- CAUTION: Was originally (Ref.1) thought to be an accessory protein
    required for nickel incorporation at the urease active site or for
    nickel transport. Actually, has been shown (Ref.5) not to be
    required for the assembly of a catalytically active urease.
-!- CAUTION: In Ref.7, mutational analysis indicated that His-123,
    His-131, and His-193 were important for acid activation of urea
    uptake in the Xenopus oocytes model, but in H.pylori itself
    (Ref.8) His-193 seems to be the only histidine that is crucial for
    ureI activation at low pH.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
