AC   P31412;
Vacuolar ATP synthase subunit C (EC 3.6.3.14) (V-ATPase C subunit)
(Vacuolar proton pump C subunit) (V-ATPase 42 kDa subunit).
"Cloning and mutational analysis of the gene encoding subunit C of
yeast vacuolar H(+)-ATPase.";
"Isolation of vacuolar membrane H(+)-ATPase-deficient yeast mutants;
the VMA5 and VMA4 genes are essential for assembly and activity of the
vacuolar H(+)-ATPase.";
"Sequence analysis of a 10 kb fragment of yeast chromosome XI
identifies the SMY1 locus and reveals sequences related to a pre-mRNA
splicing factor and vacuolar ATPase subunit C plus a number of
unidentified open reading frames.";
"Complete DNA sequence of yeast chromosome XI.";
"Evidence for major structural changes in subunit C of the vacuolar
ATPase due to nucleotide binding.";
"The H subunit (Vma13p) of the yeast V-ATPase inhibits the ATPase
activity of cytosolic V1 complexes.";
"Mutational analysis of the subunit C (Vma5p) of the yeast vacuolar
H+-ATPase.";
"Global analysis of protein localization in budding yeast.";
"Global analysis of protein expression in yeast.";
"Defined sites of interaction between subunits E (Vma4p), C (Vma5p),
and G (Vma10p) within the stator structure of the vacuolar H(+)-
ATPase.";
"Crystal structure of yeast V-ATPase subunit C reveals its stator
function.";
-!- FUNCTION: Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase.
    Subunit C acts as a flexible stator that holds together the
    catalytic and the membrane sectors of the enzyme. Reversibly
    leaves the enzyme after glucose depletion, causing the catalytic
    subcomplex V1 to detach from the V0 section. Binds ATP and is
    likely to have a specific function in the catalytic activity of
    the catalytic sector. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a
    variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O + H(+)(In) = ADP + phosphate +
    H(+)(Out).
-!- SUBUNIT: V-ATPase is an heteromultimeric enzyme composed of a
    peripheral catalytic V1 complex (components A to H) attached to an
    integral membrane V0 proton pore complex (components: a, c, c',
    c'', d and e). Interacts directly with VMA4.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Vacuole; vacuolar membrane; peripheral
    membrane protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Present with 21114 molecules/cell.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the V-ATPase C subunit family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 and Ref.2 sequences differ from that shown due to a
    frameshift in position 24.
 GO:0000221; C:hydrogen-transporting ATPase V1 domain; TAS:SGD.
 GO:0000329; C:vacuolar membrane (sensu Fungi); TAS:SGD.
 GO:0046961; F:hydrogen-transporting ATPase activity, rota...; TAS:SGD.
 GO:0007035; P:vacuolar acidification; TAS:SGD.
3D-structure; Acetylation; ATP synthesis; ATP-binding;
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Hydrogen ion transport;
Hydrolase; Ion transport; Nucleotide-binding; Transport.
TMZERO
