AC   P12520;
Protein Vpr (Viral protein R) (R ORF protein).
"Vpr protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 forms cation-
selective channels in planar lipid bilayers.";
"Characterization of a leucine-zipper-like domain in Vpr protein of
human immunodeficiency virus type 1.";
"Solution structure of peptides from HIV-1 Vpr protein that cause
membrane permeabilization and growth arrest.";
"Structure of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Vpr(34-51) peptide
in micelle containing aqueous solution.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in the transport of the viral pre-integration
    (PIC) complex to the nucleus during the early stages of the
    infection. This function is crucial for viral infection of non-
    dividing macrophages. May interact with karyopherin alpha/KPNA1
    and KPNA2 to increase their affinity for proteins containing
    basic-type nuclear localization signal, including the viral matrix
    protein MA, thus facilitating the translocation of the viral
    genome into the nucleus. May also act directly at the nuclear pore
    complex, by binding nucleoporins phenylalanine-glycine (FG)-repeat
    regions. Has an anti-apoptotic effect, whereas high level of
    expression induces apoptosis. Interacts with mitochondrial
    permeability transition pore complex (PTPC), presumably through
    the binding of ANT proteins. This induces a rapid dissipation of
    the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, and mitochondrial
    release of apoptogenic proteins such as cytochrome C or apoptosis
    inducing factors. Prevents infected cells from undergoing mitosis
    and proliferating, by inducing arrest or delay in the G2 phase of
    the cell cycle. The arrest in G2 is characterized by low levels of
    CCNB1-CDC2 complex and corresponding inhibitory phosphorylation of
    CDC2. Cell cycle arrest creates a favourable environment for
    maximizing viral expression and production. This may be mediated
    by interacting with and inhibiting human CDC25C, which normally
    activates the CCNB1-CDC2 complex, or by binding SF3B2/SAP145. This
    function is independent of nuclear localization. Cell cycle arrest
    reportedly occurs within hours of infection and is not blocked by
    antiviral agents, suggesting that it is initiated by the Vpr
    carried into the virion. Stimulates gene expression driven by the
    HIV-1 LTR by interacting with human SP1, TFIIB and TFIID.
    Moreover, the G2/M cell cycle arrest creates a cellular
    environment where the HIV-1 LTR is transcriptionally more active.
    Essential for unintegrated viral DNA expression. Detected in the
    serum and cerebrospinal fluid of AIDS patient, where it may induce
    cell death to bystander cells. This necrotic or apoptotic effect
    might function by entering target cell plasma membrane to form ion
    channel (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homo-oligomer, may form homodimer. Interacts with p6-gag
    region of the Pr55 Gag precursor protein through a (Leu-X-X)4
    motif near the C terminus of the P6gag protein. Interacts with
    host SLC25A4/ANT1, SLC25A5/ANT2, SLC25A6/ANT3, SP1, CDC25C,
    RAD23A/HHR23A, COPS6/HVIP, TFIIB, UNG, SF3B2/SAP145, KPNA1 and
    KPNA2 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Virion. Nucleus. Secreted protein;
    extracellular space. Note=Incorporation into virion is dependent
    on p6 GAG sequences. Lacks a canonical nuclear localization
    signal, thus import into nucleus may function independently of the
    human importin pathway. Detected in high quantity in the serum and
    cerebrospinal fluid of AIDS patient (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: HIV-1 lineages are divided in three main groups, M
    (for Major), O (for Outlier), and N (for New, or Non-M, Non-O).
    The vast majority of strains found worldwide belong to the group
    M. Group O seems to be endemic to and largely confined to Cameroon
    and neighboring countries in West Central Africa, where these
    viruses represent a small minority of HIV-1 strains. The group N
    is represented by a limited number of isolates from Cameroonian
    persons. The group M is further subdivided in 9 clades or subtypes
    (A to D, F to H, J and K).
3D-structure; Activator; AIDS; Apoptosis; Cell cycle;
Host-virus interaction; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Nuclear protein;
Phosphorylation; Transcription; Transcription regulation; Transport;
Virion protein.
TMZERO
