AC   P05919;
Protein Vpu (Viral protein U) (U ORF protein).
"Complete nucleotide sequences of functional clones of the AIDS
virus.";
"The Vpu protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 forms cation-
selective ion channels.";
-!- FUNCTION: Displays 2 major functions: enhances virion budding,
    maybe by preventing Pr55gag from being retargeted to internal
    membranes through endocytosis; and induces human CD4 degradation,
    by binding it in the endoplasmic reticulum and targeting it to the
    ubiquitin-dependent degradation pathway. Degradation of CD4 may
    prevent any catastrophic interactions between viral Env and human
    CD4 in the endoplasmic reticulum, thereby facilitating proper Env
    assembly into virions, and perhaps preventing retention of virions
    at the cell surface. Forms a cation-selective ion channel, thereby
    enhancing virion budding through an unknown mechanism. Also
    induces apoptosis, presumably by binding to human BRCP which may
    induce down-regulation of NF-kappa-B (By similarity).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Ion channel activity is inhibited by
    hexamethylene amiloride in vitro (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: May form pentamers or hexamers. Forms a ternary complex
    by interacting with human CD4 and human BTRCP (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The 2 major functions are related to 2 separable
    structural domains: the N-terminal and transmembrane domains are
    required for proper virion budding, whereas the cytoplasmic domain
    is required for CD4 degradation. The cytoplasmic domain is
    composed of 2 amphipathic alpha helix (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by host CK2. This phosphorylation is necessary
    for interaction with human BRCP and degradation of CD4, but not
    for enhancement of virion budding (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The function of virion budding enhancement is
    specific to human lentiviruses. This function may have evolved to
    counteract an assembly restriction that is present only in human
    cells.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: HIV-1 lineages are divided in three main groups, M
    (for Major), O (for Outlier), and N (for New, or Non-M, Non-O).
    The vast majority of strains found worldwide belong to the group
    M. Group O seems to be endemic to and largely confined to Cameroon
    and neighboring countries in West Central Africa, where these
    viruses represent a small minority of HIV-1 strains. The group N
    is represented by a limited number of isolates from Cameroonian
    persons. The group M is further subdivided in 9 clades or subtypes
    (A to D, F to H, J and K).
AIDS; Apoptosis; Host-virus interaction; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Phosphorylation; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMONE
