AC   P16573;
Carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 1 precursor
(Cell-CAM 105) (C-CAM 105) (Ecto-ATPase) (ATP-dependent taurocolate-
carrier protein) (GP110) (pp120).
"Cloning and expression of a cDNA coding for a rat liver plasma
membrane ecto-ATPase. The primary structure of the ecto-ATPase is
similar to that of the human biliary glycoprotein I.";
"Different isoforms and stock-specific variants of the cell adhesion
molecule C-CAM (cell-CAM 105) in rat liver.";
"Molecular cloning and expression of a new rat liver cell-CAM105
isoform. Differential phosphorylation of isoforms.";
"The cytoplasmic domain of C-CAM is required for C-CAM-mediated
adhesion function: studies of a C-CAM transcript containing an
unspliced intron.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"The cell adhesion molecule Cell-CAM 105 is an ecto-ATPase and a
member of the immunoglobulin superfamily.";
"Characterisation of the ATP-dependent taurocholate-carrier protein
(gp110) of the hepatocyte canalicular membrane.";
"The rat liver ecto-ATPase is also a canalicular bile acid transport
protein.";
"pp120/ecto-ATPase, an endogenous substrate of the insulin receptor
tyrosine kinase, is expressed as two variably spliced isoforms.";
"Immunochemical characterization of two isoforms of rat liver ecto-
ATPase that show an immunological and structural identity with a
glycoprotein cell-adhesion molecule with Mr 105,000.";
-!- FUNCTION: This protein is a calcium-independent cell adhesion
    molecule with homophilic binding properties. May play a role in
    the formation and maintenance of the specialized membrane
    structure of the apical surface of the hepatocytes.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein. Note=Canalicular domain of hepatocyte plasma membranes.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=Long;
      IsoId=P16573-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=Short; Synonyms=C-CAM3;
      IsoId=P16573-2; Sequence=VSP_002504, VSP_002505;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in epithelia, vessel endothelia,
    leukocytes and platelets.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated on serine residues in both isoforms. On serine
    and tyrosine residues in cytoplasmic region of the long isoform.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. CEA family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like)
    domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 Ig-like V-type (immunoglobulin-like)
    domain.
 GO:0043406; P:positive regulation of MAPK activity; IDA:MGI.
Alternative splicing; Cell adhesion; Direct protein sequencing;
Glycoprotein; Immunoglobulin domain; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Pyrrolidone carboxylic acid; Repeat; Signal; Transmembrane.
TMONE
