AC   P35523;
Chloride channel protein, skeletal muscle (Chloride channel protein 1)
(ClC-1).
"Multimeric structure of ClC-1 chloride channel revealed by mutations
in dominant myotonia congenita (Thomsen).";
"The skeletal muscle chloride channel in dominant and recessive human
myotonia.";
"Molecular basis of Thomsen's disease (autosomal dominant myotonia
congenita).";
"Genomic organization of the human muscle chloride channel CIC-1 and
analysis of novel mutations leading to Becker-type myotonia.";
"Proof of a non-functional muscle chloride channel in recessive
myotonia congenita (Becker) by detection of a 4 base pair deletion.";
"Nonsense and missense mutations of the muscle chloride channel gene
in patients with myotonia congenita.";
"Spectrum of mutations in the major human skeletal muscle chloride
channel gene (CLCN1) leading to myotonia.";
"Myotonia levior is a chloride channel disorder.";
"Novel muscle chloride channel mutations and their effects on
heterozygous carriers.";
"ClC-1 chloride channel mutations in myotonia congenita: variable
penetrance of mutations shifting the voltage dependence.";
"Identification of five new mutations and three novel polymorphisms in
the muscle chloride channel gene (CLCN1) in 20 Italian patients with
dominant and recessive myotonia congenita.";
"Novel muscle chloride channel (CLCN1) mutations in myotonia congenita
with various modes of inheritance including incomplete dominance and
penetrance.";
-!- FUNCTION: Voltage-gated chloride channel. Chloride channels have
    several functions including the regulation of cell volume;
    membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and
    transepithelial transport.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer (Probable).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Predominantly expressed in skeletal muscles.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CLCN1 are the cause of autosomal dominant
    myotonia congenita (MCD) [MIM:160800]; also known as Thomsen
    disease. MCD is characterized by skeletal muscle stiffness
    (delayed relaxation), due to membrane hyperexcitability. A variant
    form of Thomsen disease is myotonia levior that is characterized
    by milder symptoms, later onset and absence of muscle hypo- and
    hypertrophy.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CLCN1 are the cause of autosomal recessive
    myotonia congenita (MCR) [MIM:255700]; also known as Becker
    disease.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the chloride channel (TC 1.A.11) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 CBS domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=CLCN1".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005247; F:voltage-gated chloride channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006936; P:muscle contraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
CBS domain; Chloride; Chloride channel; Disease mutation;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Polymorphism; Repeat;
Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTHIRTEEN
