AC   P29973; Q16279; Q16485;
cGMP-gated cation channel alpha 1 (CNG channel alpha 1) (CNG-1) (CNG1)
(Cyclic nucleotide-gated channel alpha 1) (Cyclic nucleotide-gated
channel, photoreceptor) (Cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel 1)
(Rod photoreceptor cGMP-gated channel subunit alpha).
"Primary structure and chromosomal localization of human and mouse rod
photoreceptor cGMP-gated cation channel.";
"Human rod photoreceptor cGMP-gated channel: amino acid sequence, gene
structure, and functional expression.";
"Expression of cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channels in non-sensory
tissues and cells.";
"Mutations in the gene encoding the alpha subunit of the rod cGMP-
gated channel in autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa.";
"Autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa in a Pakistani family mapped
to CNGA1 with identification of a novel mutation.";
-!- FUNCTION: Visual signal transduction is mediated by a G-protein
    coupled cascade using cGMP as second messenger. This protein can
    be activated by cyclic GMP which leads to an opening of the cation
    channel and thereby causing a depolarization of rod
    photoreceptors.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer or higher oligomer. Forms heterooligomeric
    complex with CNG4.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Rod cells in the retina.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CNGA1 are a cause of autosomal recessive
    retinitis pigmentosa (ARRP) [MIM:268000]. Retinitis pigmentosa
    (RP) [MIM:268000] leads to degeneration of retinal photoreceptor
    cells. Patients typically have night vision blindness and loss of
    midperipheral visual field. As their condition progresses, they
    lose their far peripheral visual field and eventually central
    vision as well.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel
    (TC 1.A.1.5) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 cyclic nucleotide-binding domain.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Mutations of the CNGA1 gene;
    NOTE=Retina International's Scientific Newsletter;
    URL="http://www.retina-international.com/sci-news/cnga1mut.htm".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=CNGA1".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007601; P:visual perception; TAS:ProtInc.
cGMP; cGMP-binding; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Polymorphism;
Retinitis pigmentosa; Sensory transduction; Transmembrane; Transport;
Vision.
TMSIX
