AC   P0A2R8; P31138;
Magnesium transport protein corA.
"Sequence and topology of the CorA magnesium transport systems of
Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli. Identification of a new
class of transport protein.";
"Complete genome sequence of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium
LT2.";
"Magnesium transport in Salmonella typhimurium: characterization of
magnesium influx and cloning of a transport gene.";
"Magnesium transport in Salmonella typhimurium: genetic
characterization and cloning of three magnesium transport loci.";
"Magnesium transport in Salmonella typhimurium: (28)Mg2+ transport by
the CorA, MgtA, and MgtB systems.";
"The CorA Mg2+ transport protein of Salmonella typhimurium.
Mutagenesis of conserved residues in the third membrane domain
identifies a Mg2+ pore.";
"The CorA Mg(2+) transport protein of Salmonella typhimurium.
Mutagenesis of conserved residues in the second membrane domain.";
"Cation hexaammines are selective and potent inhibitors of the CorA
magnesium transport system.";
"The CorA Mg2+ transporter is a homotetramer.";
"The CorA Mg2+ transporter does not transport Fe2+.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates both influx and efflux of magnesium ions. Can
    also mediate cobalt and nickel uptake, albeit only at
    extracellular concentrations that are toxic to the cell. Does not
    transport iron.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by cation hexaammines.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=15 uM for magnesium ions;
      KM=30 uM for cobalt ions;
      KM=300 uM for nickel ions;
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- INDUCTION: Constitutively expressed.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Is the dominant magnesium transport system under
    laboratory growth conditions.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the corA metal ion transporter (MIT)
    (TC 1.A.35) family.
Cobalt; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Ion transport; Magnesium;
Membrane; Nickel; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
