AC   P00424;
Cytochrome c oxidase polypeptide Va, mitochondrial precursor
(EC 1.9.3.1).
"Primary structure of a gene for subunit V of the cytochrome c oxidase
from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Cloning and characterization of the yeast nuclear gene for subunit 5
of cytochrome oxidase.";
"Structural analysis of two genes encoding divergent forms of yeast
cytochrome c oxidase subunit V.";
"The sequence of a 44 420 bp fragment located on the left arm of
chromosome XIV from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome XIV
and its evolutionary implications.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Two nonidentical forms of subunit V are functional in yeast
cytochrome c oxidase.";
"The nuclear-coded subunits of yeast cytochrome c oxidase. III.
Identification of homologous subunits in yeast, bovine heart, and
Neurospora crassa cytochrome c oxidases.";
"Import of proteins into mitochondria. Isolated yeast mitochondria and
a solubilized matrix protease correctly process cytochrome c oxidase
subunit V precursor at the NH2 terminus.";
"Kinetic properties and ligand binding of the eleven-subunit
cytochrome-c oxidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae isolated with a
novel large-scale purification method.";
"Global analysis of protein expression in yeast.";
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: 4 ferrocytochrome c + O(2) = 4 ferricytochrome
    c + 2 H(2)O.
-!- SUBUNIT: Cytochrome c oxidase is composed of 11 subunits: one copy
    each of COX1, COX2, COX3, COX4, COX5A or COX5B, COX6, COX7, COX9,
    COX12, COX13 and two copies of COX8.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Present with 3670 molecules/cell.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the cytochrome c oxidase IV family.
 GO:0005751; C:respiratory chain complex IV (sensu Eukaryota); IPI:SGD.
 GO:0006123; P:mitochondrial electron transport, cytochrom...; IDA:SGD.
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Inner membrane;
Membrane; Mitochondrion; Oxidoreductase; Transit peptide.
TMZERO
