AC   O60931; Q9UNK6;
Cystinosin.
"A novel gene encoding an integral membrane protein is mutated in
nephropathic cystinosis.";
"The genomic region encompassing the nephropathic cystinosis gene
(CTNS): complete sequencing of a 200-kb segment and discovery of a
novel gene within the common cystinosis-causing deletion.";
"Identification and detection of the common 65-kb deletion breakpoint
in the nephropathic cystinosis gene (CTNS).";
"CTNS mutations in patients with cystinosis.";
"CTNS mutations in an American-based population of cystinosis
patients.";
"Molecular analysis of cystinosis: probable Irish origin of the most
common French Canadian mutation.";
"Mutations of CTNS causing intermediate cystinosis.";
"Severity of phenotype in cystinosis varies with mutations in the CTNS
gene: predicted effect on the model of cystinosin.";
-!- FUNCTION: Thought to transport cystine out of lysosomes.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Lysosome; lysosomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Strongly expressed in pancreas, kidney (adult
    and fetal) and in skeletal muscle. Expressed at lower levels in
    placenta and heart. Weakly expressed in lung, liver and brain
    (adult and fetal).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CTNS are the cause of cystinosis [MIM:219800,
    219900, 219750]. This autosomal recessive disorder results from
    defective lysosomal transport of cystine. The classical
    nephropathic form is characterized by renal failure at 10 years of
    age and other systemic complications. Milder phenotype exist such
    as intermediate cystinosis, with later onset of renal disease and
    benign or non-nephropathic cystinosis, with symptoms related only
    to corneal crystals and photophobia.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the cystinosin family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 PQ-loop domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=CTNS".
 GO:0005765; C:lysosomal membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015184; F:L-cystine transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006520; P:amino acid metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015811; P:L-cystine transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Lysosome; Membrane; Polymorphism;
Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSEVEN
