AC   P81662; Q9N601;
Sticholysin-1 (Sticholysin I) (Cytolysin St I) (Cytotoxin).
"Primary structure of two cytolysin isoforms from Stichodactyla
helianthus differing in their hemolytic activity.";
"Cloning and expression of sticholysins from sea aemone, Stichodactyla
helianthus.";
"Purification and characterization of two hemolysins from
Stichodactyla helianthus.";
"Properties of St I and St II, two isotoxins isolated from
Stichodactyla helianthus: a comparison.";
"Structural and functional characterization of a recombinant
sticholysin I (rSt I) from the sea anemone Stichodactyla helianthus.";
-!- FUNCTION: This cardiac stimulatory and hemolytic pore-forming
    protein forms cations-selective hydrophilic pores of around 1 nm.
    Cytolytic effects include red blood cells hemolysis, platelet
    aggregation and lysis, cytotoxic and cytostatic effects on
    fibroblasts. Lethality in mammals has been ascribed to severe
    vasospasm of coronary vessels, cardiac arrhythmia, and inotropic
    effects. Pore formation proceeds by membrane binding via a surface
    rich in aromatic residues, followed by translocation of the N-
    terminal region to the membrane and, finally, across the bilayer
    to form a functional pore (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Tetramer in the presence of a lipidic interface. Monomer,
    in soluble state (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Found in nematocyst.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminal region, before the pore is formed, is bound
    to the lipid membrane. It partitions into the lipid-water
    interface and stabilizes the monomeric molecule on the membrane.
    Finally, it traverses the bilayer, thus forming the transmembrane
    pore (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The Trp-rich region is important for the binding to lipid
    membrane (By similarity).
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=19392; MW_ERR=2; METHOD=Electrospray;
    RANGE=1-176; NOTE=Ref.1.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sea anemone actinoporin family.
Cytolysis; Direct protein sequencing; Hemolysis; Ion transport;
Membrane; Nematocyst; Porin; Toxin; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMZERO
