AC   P61914; P17723; Q16993; Q9TWV2; Q9TWV3;
Equinatoxin-2 precursor (Equinatoxin II) (EqTII) (EqT-II).
"Cloning, sequencing, and expression of equinatoxin II.";
"Primary and secondary structure of a pore-forming toxin from the sea
anemone, Actinia equina L., and its association with lipid vesicles.";
"Partial amino acid sequence of equinatoxin.";
"Isolation and characterization of equinatoxins from the sea anemone
Actinia equina L.";
"Isolation and characterization of three lethal and hemolytic toxins
from the sea anemone Actinia equina L.";
"Cysteine-scanning mutagenesis of an eukaryotic pore-forming toxin
from sea anemone: topology in lipid membranes.";
"Structure-function studies of tryptophan mutants of equinatoxin II, a
sea anemone pore-forming protein.";
"Two-step membrane binding by Equinatoxin II, a pore-forming toxin
from the sea anemone, involves an exposed aromatic cluster and a
flexible helix.";
"A novel mechanism of pore formation: membrane penetration by the N-
terminal amphipathic region of equinatoxin.";
"Crystal structure of the soluble form of equinatoxin II, a pore-
forming toxin from the sea anemone Actinia equina.";
"Solution structure of the eukaryotic pore-forming cytolysin
equinatoxin II: implications for pore formation.";
-!- FUNCTION: This cardiac stimulatory and hemolytic pore-forming
    protein forms cations-selective hydrophilic pores of around 1 nm.
    Cytolytic effects include red blood cells hemolysis, platelet
    aggregation and lysis, cytotoxic and cytostatic effects on
    fibroblasts. Lethality in mammals has been ascribed to severe
    vasospasm of coronary vessels, cardiac arrhythmia, and inotropic
    effects. Pore formation proceeds by membrane binding via a surface
    rich in aromatic residues, followed by translocation of the N-
    terminal region to the membrane and, finally, across the bilayer
    to form a functional pore.
-!- SUBUNIT: Tetramer in the presence of a lipidic interface. Monomer,
    in soluble state.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Found in nematocyst.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminal region, before the pore is formed, is bound
    to the lipid membrane. It partitions into the lipid-water
    interface and stabilizes the monomeric molecule on the membrane.
    Finally, it traverses the bilayer, thus forming the transmembrane
    pore.
-!- DOMAIN: The Trp-rich region is important for the binding to lipid
    membrane.
-!- TOXIC DOSE: LD(50) is 35 ug/kg by intravenous injection into mice.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sea anemone actinoporin family.
3D-structure; Cytolysis; Direct protein sequencing; Hemolysis;
Ion transport; Membrane; Nematocyst; Porin; Signal; Toxin;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMZERO
