AC   P04839; Q2PP16;
Cytochrome b-245 heavy chain (p22 phagocyte B-cytochrome) (Neutrophil
cytochrome b 91 kDa polypeptide) (CGD91-phox) (gp91-phox) (gp91-1)
(Heme-binding membrane glycoprotein gp91phox) (Cytochrome b(558)
subunit beta) (Cytochrome b558 subunit beta) (Superoxide-generating
NADPH oxidase heavy chain subunit) (NADPH oxidase 2).
"Cloning the gene for an inherited human disorder -- chronic
granulomatous disease -- on the basis of its chromosomal location.";
"CYBB mutation analysis in X-linked chronic granulomatous disease.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"The glycoprotein encoded by the X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease locus is a component of the neutrophil cytochrome b complex.";
"Nonhomologous recombination between the cytochrome b558 heavy chain
gene (CYBB) and LINE-1 causes an X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease.";
"The X-linked chronic granulomatous disease gene codes for the beta-
chain of cytochrome b-245.";
"Evidence that the product of the human X-linked CGD gene, gp91-phox,
is a voltage-gated H(+) pathway.";
"A missense mutation in the neutrophil cytochrome b heavy chain in
cytochrome-positive X-linked chronic granulomatous disease.";
"Point mutations in the beta-subunit of cytochrome b558 leading to X-
linked chronic granulomatous disease.";
"A newly recognized point mutation in the cytochrome b558 heavy chain
gene replacing alanine57 by glutamic acid, in a patient with
cytochrome b positive X-linked chronic granulomatous disease.";
"Two novel point mutations in the cytochrome b 558 heavy chain gene,
detected in two Japanese patients with X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease.";
"A point mutation in gp91-phox of cytochrome b558 of the human NADPH
oxidase leading to defective translocation of the cytosolic proteins
p47-phox and p67-phox.";
"An in-frame triplet deletion within the gp91-phox gene in an adult X-
linked chronic granulomatous disease patient with residual NADPH-
oxidase activity.";
"X-linked chronic granulomatous disease: mutations in the CYBB gene
encoding the gp91-phox component of respiratory-burst oxidase.";
"A novel mutation at a probable heme-binding ligand in neutrophil
cytochrome b558 in atypical X-linked chronic granulomatous disease.";
"Genetic analysis of 13 families with X-linked chronic granulomatous
disease reveals a low proportion of sporadic patients and a high
proportion of sporadic carriers.";
"Molecular analysis of chronic granulomatous disease caused by defects
in gp91-phox.";
"Statistical and mutational analysis of chronic granulomatous disease
in Japan with special reference to gp91-phox and p22-phox
deficiency.";
"Molecular and functional characterization of a new X-linked chronic
granulomatous disease variant (X91+) case with a double missense
mutation in the cytosolic gp91phox C-terminal tail.";
-!- FUNCTION: Critical component of the membrane-bound oxidase of
    phagocytes that generates superoxide. It is the terminal component
    of a respiratory chain that transfers single electrons from
    cytoplasmic NADPH across the plasma membrane to molecular oxygen
    on the exterior. Also functions as a voltage-gated proton channel
    that mediates the H(+) currents of resting phagocytes. It
    participates in the regulation of cellular pH and is blocked by
    zinc.
-!- COFACTOR: FAD (Probable).
-!- SUBUNIT: Composed of a heavy chain (beta) and a light chain
    (alpha).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- PTM: Glycosylated.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CYBB are a cause of X-linked chronic
    granulomatous disease (X-CGD) [MIM:306400]. X-CGD is characterized
    by the failure of activated phagocytes to generate superoxide.
    Patients suffer from life-threatening bacterial/fungal infections.
    Patients with CYBB dysfunction are generally classified into three
    groups, namely X91(0) (no expression of the protein); X91(-)
    (reduced expression) and X91(+) (normal expression).
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ferric oxidoreductase domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.5 sequence differs from that shown due to erroneous
    gene model prediction.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=CYBBbase; NOTE=CYBB deficiency database;
    URL="http://www.uta.fi/imt/bioinfo/CYBBbase/".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=CYBB".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019735; P:antimicrobial humoral response (sensu Verte...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006954; P:inflammatory response; TAS:ProtInc.
Chronic granulomatous disease; Direct protein sequencing;
Disease mutation; Electron transport; FAD; Glycoprotein; Heme;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Iron; Membrane; Metal-binding; NADP;
Oxidoreductase; Polymorphism; Transmembrane; Transport;
Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
