AC   P15318;
Bifunctional hemolysin-adenylate cyclase precursor (Cyclolysin) (ACT)
(AC-HLY) [Contains: Calmodulin-sensitive adenylate cyclase
(EC 4.6.1.1) (ATP pyrophosphate-lyase) (Adenylyl cyclase); Hemolysin].
"The calmodulin-sensitive adenylate cyclase of Bordetella pertussis:
cloning and expression in Escherichia coli.";
"Comparative analysis of the genome sequences of Bordetella pertussis,
Bordetella parapertussis and Bordetella bronchiseptica.";
"Secretion of cyclolysin, the calmodulin-sensitive adenylate cyclase-
haemolysin bifunctional protein of Bordetella pertussis.";
"Isolation and characterization of catalytic and calmodulin-binding
domains of Bordetella pertussis adenylate cyclase.";
"Identification of residues essential for catalysis and binding of
calmodulin in Bordetella pertussis adenylate cyclase by site-directed
mutagenesis.";
"Functional consequences of single amino acid substitutions in
calmodulin-activated adenylate cyclase of Bordetella pertussis.";
"Phylogeny of adenylyl cyclases.";
"Internal lysine palmitoylation in adenylate cyclase toxin from
Bordetella pertussis.";
"The conserved lysine 860 in the additional fatty-acylation site of
Bordetella pertussis adenylate cyclase is crucial for toxin function
independently of its acylation status.";
-!- FUNCTION: This adenylate cyclase belongs to a special class of
    bacterial toxin. It causes whooping cough by acting on mammalian
    cells by elevating cAMP-concentration and thus disrupts normal
    cell function.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP = 3',5'-cyclic AMP + diphosphate.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Activated by host calmodulin.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The Gly-rich region is probably involved in binding
    calcium, which is required for target cell-binding or cytolytic
    activity (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Released in a processed form.
-!- PTM: Palmitoylated by cyaC. The toxin only becomes active when
    modified in position Lys-983.
-!- SIMILARITY: In the N-terminal section; belongs to the adenylyl
    cyclase class-2 family.
-!- SIMILARITY: In the C-terminal section; belongs to the RTX
    prokaryotic toxin family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 17 hemolysin-type calcium-binding repeats.
 GO:0004016; F:adenylate cyclase activity; IEA:EC.
3D-structure; ATP-binding; Calcium; Calmodulin-binding;
cAMP biosynthesis; Complete proteome; Cytolysis; Hemolysis;
Lipoprotein; Lyase; Nucleotide-binding; Palmitate; Repeat; Toxin;
Virulence; Whooping cough.
TMZERO
