AC   P00163; Q35802; Q35807; Q36301; Q9ZZW9;
Cytochrome b (Ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase complex cytochrome b
subunit) (Complex III subunit CYTB) (Cytochrome b-c1 complex subunit
CYTB).
"Assembly of the mitochondrial membrane system. DNA sequence and
organization of the cytochrome b gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
D273-10B.";
"Revision of the nucleotide sequence at the last intron of the
mitochondrial apocytochrome b gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Limitations to in vivo import of hydrophobic proteins into yeast
mitochondria. The case of a cytoplasmically synthesized apocytochrome
b.";
"The complete sequence of the mitochondrial genome of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae.";
"Sequence of introns and flanking exons in wild-type and box3 mutants
of cytochrome b reveals an interlaced splicing protein coded by an
intron.";
"Splice points of the third intron in the yeast mitochondrial
cytochrome b gene.";
"Electron-transfer restoration by vitamin K3 in a complex III-
deficient mutant of S. cerevisiae and sequence of the corresponding
cytochrome b mutation.";
"Structure at 2.3 A resolution of the cytochrome bc1 complex from the
yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae co-crystallized with an antibody Fv
fragment.";
"Crystal structure of the yeast cytochrome bc1 complex with its bound
substrate cytochrome c.";
-!- FUNCTION: Component of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase
    complex (complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex), which is part of
    the mitochondrial respiratory chain that generates an
    electrochemical potential coupled to ATP synthesis. The complex
    couples electron transfer from ubiquinol to cytochrome c.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 heme groups non-covalently (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Fungi cytochrome b-c1 complex contains 10 subunits; 3
    respiratory subunits, 2 core proteins and 5 low-molecular weight
    proteins. Cytochrome b-c1 complex is a homodimer.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Heme 1 (or BL or b562) is low-potential and absorbs
    at about 562 nm, and heme 2 (or BH or b566) is high-potential and
    absorbs at about 566 nm (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the cytochrome b family.
 GO:0005750; C:respiratory chain complex III (sensu Eukary...; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0008121; F:ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0009060; P:aerobic respiration; IMP:SGD.
 GO:0006122; P:mitochondrial electron transport, ubiquinol...; IMP:SGD.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Electron transport; Heme; Iron;
Membrane; Metal-binding; Mitochondrion; Respiratory chain;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMZERO
