AC   P0ABI8; P18401; Q2MBZ5;
Ubiquinol oxidase subunit 1 (EC 1.10.3.-) (Ubiquinol oxidase
polypeptide I) (Cytochrome o subunit 1) (Oxidase BO(3) subunit 1)
(Cytochrome o ubiquinol oxidase subunit 1) (Ubiquinol oxidase chain
A).
"The sequence of the cyo operon indicates substantial structural
similarities between the cytochrome o ubiquinol oxidase of Escherichia
coli and the aa3-type family of cytochrome c oxidases.";
"Sequence of minutes 4-25 of Escherichia coli.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"The use of gene fusions to determine the topology of all of the
subunits of the cytochrome o terminal oxidase complex of Escherichia
coli.";
"Recent studies of the cytochrome o terminal oxidase complex of
Escherichia coli.";
"Substitutions of charged amino acid residues conserved in subunit I
perturb the redox metal centers of the Escherichia coli bo-type
ubiquinol oxidase.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"The structure of the ubiquinol oxidase from Escherichia coli and its
ubiquinone binding site.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cytochrome o terminal oxidase complex is the component
    of the aerobic respiratory chain of E.coli that predominates when
    cells are grown at high aeration. This ubiquinol oxidase shows
    proton pump activity across the membrane in addition to the
    electron transfer.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Ubiquinol-8 + O(2) = Ubiquinone-8 + H(2)O.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 1 copper ion.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 protoheme IX (heme b55 and b562) groups.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterooctamer of two A chains, two B chains, two C chains
    and two D chains.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Ubiquinol oxidase catalyzes the terminal step in
    the electron transport chain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the heme-copper respiratory oxidase family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Copper; Electron transport; Heme;
Hydrogen ion transport; Inner membrane; Ion transport; Iron; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Oxidoreductase; Respiratory chain; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMFIFTEEN
