AC   Q06143; P87332;
Mitochondrial dicarboxylate transporter (Dicarboxylate carrier 1)
(DTP).
"Identification of a novel gene encoding the yeast mitochondrial
dicarboxylate transport protein via overexpression, purification, and
characterization of its protein product.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome XII.";
"Characterization, purification and properties of the yeast
mitochondrial dicarboxylate carrier (Saccharomyces cerevisiae).";
"Bacterial overexpression of putative yeast mitochondrial transport
proteins.";
"The mitochondrial dicarboxylate carrier is essential for the growth
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae on ethanol or acetate as the sole carbon
source.";
"Biogenesis of the dicarboxylate carrier (DIC): translocation across
the mitochondrial outer membrane and subsequent release from the TOM
channel are membrane potential-independent.";
"Global analysis of protein localization in budding yeast.";
"Global analysis of protein expression in yeast.";
"The proteome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondria.";
"The carboxyl-terminal third of the dicarboxylate carrier is crucial
for productive association with the inner membrane twin-pore
translocase.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mitochondrial dicarboxylic transporter catalyzing the
    exchange of dicarboxylic acids like malate and succinate for
    inorganic phosphate. Required for growth on ethanol and acetate.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=1.55 mM for malonate;
      Vmax=3 umol/min/mg enzyme;
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer. Binds to the TIM22 translocation complex
    during import.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The C-terminal Solcar repeat is required for association
    with the TIM22 translocation complex during import.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Present with 3390 molecules/cell.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 Solcar repeats.
 GO:0005740; C:mitochondrial envelope; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0005310; F:dicarboxylic acid transporter activity; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0006835; P:dicarboxylic acid transport; IDA:SGD.
Antiport; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Mitochondrion;
Phosphate transport; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFIVE
