AC   Q9HC21;
Mitochondrial deoxynucleotide carrier (Solute carrier family 25 member
19) (Mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1).
"The human mitochondrial deoxynucleotide carrier and its role in the
toxicity of nucleoside antivirals.";
"MUP 1, a mitochondrial uncoupling protein.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Mutant deoxynucleotide carrier is associated with congenital
microcephaly.";
-!- FUNCTION: Responsible for the uptake of deoxynucleotides into the
    matrix of the mitochondria. Transports all four deoxy NDPs, and,
    less efficiently, the corresponding dNTPs. Does not transport
    dNMPs, NMPs, deoxynucleosides, nucleosides, purines, or
    pyrimidines. Supply deoxynucleotides to the mitochondrial matrix
    for conversion to triphosphates and incorporation into
    mitochondrial DNA.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in all tissues examined except for
    placenta. Highest levels in colon, kidney, lung, testis, spleen,
    and brain.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC25A19 are the cause of Amish type
    microcephaly (MCPHA) [MIM:607196]; also known as Amish lethal
    microcephaly. MCPHA is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder
    characterized by severe congenital microcephaly, severe 2-
    ketoglutaric aciduria and death within the first year.
-!- DISEASE: Likely to be medically important by providing the means
    of uptake into mitochondria of nucleoside analogs, leading to the
    mitochondrial impairment that underlies the toxic side effects of
    such drugs in the treatment of viral illnesses, including AIDS,
    and in cancer therapy.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The transmembrane helices are not perpendicular to
    the plane of the membrane, but cross the membrane at an angle.
    Odd-numbered transmembrane helices exhibit a sharp kink, due to
    the presence of a conserved proline residue (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 Solcar repeats.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=SLC25A19".
 GO:0005743; C:mitochondrial inner membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0030233; F:deoxynucleotide transporter activity; TAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0030302; P:deoxynucleotide transport; NAS:UniProtKB.
Disease mutation; Inner membrane; Membrane; Mitochondrion; Repeat;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
