AC   P12235;
ADP/ATP translocase 1 (Adenine nucleotide translocator 1) (ANT 1)
(ADP,ATP carrier protein 1) (Solute carrier family 25 member 4)
(ADP,ATP carrier protein, heart/skeletal muscle isoform T1).
"cDNA sequence of a human skeletal muscle ADP/ATP translocator: lack
of a leader peptide, divergence from a fibroblast translocator cDNA,
and coevolution with mitochondrial DNA genes.";
"DNA sequences of two expressed nuclear genes for human mitochondrial
ADP/ATP translocase.";
"A human muscle adenine nucleotide translocator gene has four exons,
is located on chromosome 4, and is differentially expressed.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Two distinct genes for ADP/ATP translocase are expressed at the mRNA
level in adult human liver.";
"Mitochondrial membrane permeabilization by HIV-1 Vpr.";
"Role of adenine nucleotide translocator 1 in mtDNA maintenance.";
"A novel missense adenine nucleotide translocator-1 gene mutation in a
Greek adPEO family.";
"A novel D104G mutation in the adenine nucleotide translocator 1 gene
in autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia patients
with mitochondrial DNA with multiple deletions.";
"Mutations of ANT1, Twinkle, and POLG1 in sporadic progressive
external ophthalmoplegia (PEO).";
-!- FUNCTION: Catalyzes the exchange of ADP and ATP across the
    mitochondrial inner membrane.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer. Interacts with HIV-1 Vpr.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC25A4 are a cause of autosomal dominant
    progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA
    deletions 2 (PEOA2) [MIM:609283]. Progressive external
    ophthalmoplegia (PEO) is characterized by multiple mitochondrial
    DNA deletions in skeletal muscle. The most common clinical
    features include adult onset of ptosis and weakness of the
    extraocular muscles and exercise intolerance. The typical
    histological findings are ragged-red fibers (RRFs) with focal
    cytochrome c oxidase deficiency in patients' skeletal muscle.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The transmembrane helices are not perpendicular to
    the plane of the membrane, but cross the membrane at an angle.
    Odd-numbered transmembrane helices exhibit a sharp kink, due to
    the presence of a conserved proline residue (By similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 Solcar repeats.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005739; C:mitochondrion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015207; F:adenine transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006091; P:generation of precursor metabolites and energy; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0000002; P:mitochondrial genome maintenance; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Acetylation; Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation;
Host-virus interaction; Inner membrane; Membrane; Mitochondrion;
Progressive external ophthalmoplegia; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMSIX
