AC   P36655; P76796; Q2M6G8;
Thiol:disulfide interchange protein dsbD precursor (EC 1.8.1.8)
(Protein-disulfide reductase) (Disulfide reductase) (C-type cytochrome
biogenesis protein cycZ) (Inner membrane copper tolerance protein).
"Identification and characterization of a new disulfide isomerase-like
protein (DsbD) in Escherichia coli.";
"Molecular genetics of a chromosomal locus involved in copper
tolerance in Escherichia coli K-12.";
"The biogenesis of c-type cytochromes in Escherichia coli requires a
membrane-bound protein, DipZ, with a protein disulphide isomerase-like
domain.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome VI: DNA sequence of the
region from 92.8 through 100 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Escherichia coli DipZ: anatomy of a transmembrane protein disulphide
reductase in which three pairs of cysteine residues, one in each of
three domains, contribute differentially to function.";
"Transfer of electrons across the cytoplasmic membrane by DsbD, a
membrane protein involved in thiol-disulphide exchange and protein
folding in the bacterial periplasm.";
"Specific thiol compounds complement deficiency in c-type cytochrome
biogenesis in Escherichia coli carrying a mutation in a membrane-bound
disulphide isomerase-like protein.";
"Six conserved cysteines of the membrane protein DsbD are required for
the transfer of electrons from the cytoplasm to the periplasm of
Escherichia coli.";
"Transmembrane electron transfer by the membrane protein DsbD occurs
via a disulfide bond cascade.";
"DsbD-catalyzed transport of electrons across the membrane of
Escherichia coli.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Required to facilitate the formation of correct
    disulfide bonds in some periplasmic proteins and for the assembly
    of the periplasmic c-type cytochromes. Acts by transferring
    electrons from cytoplasmic thioredoxin to the periplasm, thereby
    maintaining the active site of dsbC, dsbE and dsbG in a reduced
    state. This transfer involves a cascade of disulfide bond
    formation and reduction steps.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: Protein dithiol + NAD(P)(+) = protein
    disulfide + NAD(P)H.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The consequences of replacement of the cysteines
    with alanines were found to depend on the conditions tested and on
    the reporter system used for the analysis, and then differ
    depending on the references.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the thioredoxin family. DsbD subfamily.
 GO:0047134; F:protein-disulfide reductase activity; IEA:EC.
 GO:0006118; P:electron transport; IEA:HAMAP.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Cytochrome c-type biogenesis;
Direct protein sequencing; Electron transport; Inner membrane;
Membrane; NAD; Oxidoreductase; Redox-active center; Signal;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMEIGHT
