AC   P23895; Q2MBN8;
Multidrug transporter emrE (Efflux-multidrug resistance protein emrE)
(Methyl viologen resistance protein C) (Ethidium resistance protein).
"Nucleotide sequence of the ethidium efflux gene from Escherichia
coli.";
"Cloning and characterization of the mvrC gene of Escherichia coli K-
12 which confers resistance against methyl viologen toxicity.";
"Sequence of minutes 4-25 of Escherichia coli.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"EmrE, an Escherichia coli 12-kDa multidrug transporter, exchanges
toxic cations and H+ and is soluble in organic solvents.";
"EmrE, the smallest ion-coupled transporter, provides a unique
paradigm for structure-function studies.";
"An essential glutamyl residue in EmrE, a multidrug antiporter from
Escherichia coli.";
"Small is mighty: EmrE, a multidrug transporter as an experimental
paradigm.";
"An amino acid cluster around the essential Glu-14 is part of the
substrate- and proton-binding domain of EmrE, a multidrug transporter
from Escherichia coli.";
"The membrane topology of EmrE - a small multidrug transporter from
Escherichia coli.";
"New insights into the structure and oligomeric state of the bacterial
multidrug transporter EmrE: an unusual asymmetric homo-dimer.";
"EmrE, a multidrug transporter from Escherichia coli, transports
monovalent and divalent substrates with the same stoichiometry.";
"In vitro synthesis of fully functional EmrE, a multidrug transporter,
and study of its oligomeric state.";
"Substrate-induced tryptophan fluorescence changes in EmrE, the
smallest ion-coupled multidrug transporter.";
"Exploring the binding domain of EmrE, the smallest multidrug
transporter.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Identification of tyrosine residues critical for the function of an
ion-coupled multidrug transporter.";
"On parallel and antiparallel topology of a homodimeric multidrug
transporter.";
"NMR investigation of the multidrug transporter EmrE, an integral
membrane protein.";
"Three-dimensional structure of the bacterial multidrug transporter
EmrE shows it is an asymmetric homodimer.";
"Structure of the multidrug resistance efflux transporter EmrE from
Escherichia coli.";
"X-ray structure of the EmrE multidrug transporter in complex with a
substrate.";
"Quasi-symmetry in the cryo-EM structure of EmrE provides the key to
modeling its transmembrane domain.";
-!- FUNCTION: Multidrug transporter that expels positively charged
    hydrophobic drugs across the inner membrane of E.coli., thereby
    conferring resistance to a wide range of toxic compounds. The drug
    efflux is coupled to an influx of protons. Is involved in the
    resistance of E.coli cells to methyl viologen, ethidium bromide
    and acriflavine. Is also able to transport tetraphenylphosphonium
    (TPP(+)) and benzalkonium.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=247 uM for methyl viologen;
      Vmax=1572 nmol/min/mg enzyme with methyl viologen as substrate;
    pH dependence:
      Optimum pH is 8-8.5. Transport activity occurs from pH 7.5 to 9;
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer; parallel. May also form dimer of homodimers.
    Binds substrate at the dimerization interface.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the small multidrug resistance (SMR)
    protein family.
-!- CAUTION: X-ray structures (Ref.22 and Ref.23) may not represent
    physiologically relevant conformations of the protein.
-!- CAUTION: X-ray and EM structures (Ref.21, Ref.22, Ref.23 and
    Ref.24) show an asymmetric dimer with the monomers in an
    antiparallel orientation, in contradiction with biochemical data
    and cross-linking studies, which demonstrated a parallel
    arrangement. Until now, emrE with a parallel orientation is the
    only one to be shown to be fully functional.
3D-structure; Antiport; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFOUR
