AC   Q03155;
Adhesin AIDA-I precursor (AIDA-I autotransporter) (AIDA).
"AIDA-I, the adhesin involved in diffuse adherence of the
diarrhoeagenic Escherichia coli strain 2787 (O126:H27), is synthesized
via a precursor molecule.";
"Characterization and immuno-detection of AIDA-I adhesin isolated from
porcine Escherichia coli.";
"Processing of the AIDA-I precursor: removal of AIDAc and evidence for
the outer membrane anchoring as a beta-barrel structure.";
"Characterization of the essential transport function of the AIDA-I
autotransporter and evidence supporting structural predictions.";
"Novel roles for the AIDA adhesin from diarrheagenic Escherichia coli:
cell aggregation and biofilm formation.";
-!- FUNCTION: Potent bacterial adhesin that mediates bacterial
    attachment to a broad variety of human and other mammalian cells.
    AIDA possesses additional virulence properties, as it is capable
    of mediating bacterial autoaggregation via intercellular self-
    recognition and it is a highly efficient initiator of biofilm
    formation.
-!- SUBUNIT: Intercellular AIDA-AIDA interaction is responsible for
    bacterial autoaggregation. AIDA can also interact with antigen 43
    (Ag43), and the resultant intercellular AIDA-Ag43 interaction
    causes cell aggregation.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell surface. Note=The cleaved C-terminal
    fragment (translocator domain) is localized in the outer membrane.
-!- DOMAIN: The signal peptide, cleaved at the inner membrane, guides
    the polyprotein to the periplasmic space. Then, insertion of the
    carboxy-terminal translocator domain (or beta-domain) in the outer
    membrane forms a hydrophilic pore for the translocation of the
    passenger domain to the bacterial cell surface, with subsequent
    autocatalytic cleavage. Finally, the mature AIDA protein remains
    in contact with the cell surface via non-covalent interactions
    with the translocator pore.
-!- PTM: Glycosylated with an average of 19 heptose residues. Only the
    glycosylated form binds to mammalilan cells. But glycosylation of
    AIDA is not required for AIDA-mediated cell-cell aggregation,
    interaction with Ag43, and induction of biofilm formation.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 autotransporter (TC 1.B.12) domain.
Autocatalytic cleavage; Cell adhesion; Direct protein sequencing;
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Outer membrane; Plasmid; Signal;
Transmembrane; Virulence.
TMFOURTEEN
