AC   Q7BSW5; O32555; Q9S6R3;
Serine protease espP precursor (EC 3.4.21.-) (Extracellular serine
protease plasmid-encoded espP).
"EspP, a novel extracellular serine protease of enterohaemorrhagic
Escherichia coli O157:H7 cleaves human coagulation factor V.";
"The complete DNA sequence and analysis of the large virulence plasmid
of Escherichia coli O157:H7.";
"Complete nucleotide sequences of 93-kb and 3.3-kb plasmids of an
enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 derived from Sakai
outbreak.";
"The large plasmids of Shiga-toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC)
are highly variable genetic elements.";
"Hydrophobic residues of the autotransporter EspP linker domain are
important for outer membrane translocation of its passenger.";
"An unusual signal peptide facilitates late steps in the biogenesis of
a bacterial autotransporter.";
-!- FUNCTION: Serine protease capable of cleaving pepsin A and human
    coagulation factor V, which may contribute to the mucosal
    hemorrhage observed in hemorrhagic colitis.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibition of cytotoxic activity by
    phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein.
-!- INDUCTION: Expression is optimal at 37 degrees Celsius, and
    inhibited at 20 degrees Celsius. It is dependent on both
    temperature and pH.
-!- DOMAIN: The signal peptide guides the precursor to the periplasmic
    space, and the C-terminal helper domain associates with the outer
    membrane to form a pore for excretion of the protease domain. The
    helper domain is then released.
-!- PTM: Cleaved to release the mature protein from the outer
    membrane.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mutagenesis experiments show the presence of a
    linker region, which is required for the translocation of the
    protease domain across the outer membrane. This linker region is
    located immediately upstream of the C-terminal helper domain.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The signal peptide may also act as a transient
    membrane anchor that prevents the protease domain from misfolding
    in the periplasm.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 autotransporter (TC 1.B.12) domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase S6 domain.
-!- CAUTION: Strain 3010/96 exhibits a partial deletion of the gene.
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Hydrolase; Membrane;
Plasmid; Protease; Serine protease; Signal; Transmembrane; Virulence;
Zymogen.
TMZERO
