AC   Q38998; Q38797; Q84MA7;
Potassium channel AKT1.
"Cloning and expression in yeast of a plant potassium ion transport
system.";
"Organization and expression of the gene coding for the potassium
transport system AKT1 of Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 2 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Tissue-specific expression of Arabidopsis AKT1 gene is consistent
with a role in K+ nutrition.";
"Tetramerization of the AKT1 plant potassium channel involves its C-
terminal cytoplasmic domain.";
"A role for the AKT1 potassium channel in plant nutrition.";
"Phylogenetic relationships within cation transporter families of
Arabidopsis.";
"Regulated expression of Arabidopsis shaker K(+) channel genes
involved in K(+) uptake and distribution in the plant.";
-!- FUNCTION: Highly selective inward-rectifying potassium channel
    that could mediate potassium uptake by plant roots. Assuming
    opened or closed conformations in response to the voltage
    difference across the membrane, the channel is activated by
    hyperpolarization. May interact with the cytoskeleton or with
    regulatory proteins.
-!- SUBUNIT: The potassium channel is probably composed of a homo- or
    heterotetrameric complex of pore-forming subunits. Possible
    heteromultimer with AKT2 or KAT3.
-!- INTERACTION:
    Q93VD3:CIPK23; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-974289, EBI-974277;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Preferentially expressed in the peripheral
    cell layers of root mature including root cortex and root hairs.
    Detected also, at a lower level, in the mesophyll of the leaves
    and at restricted sites corresponding to hydathodes and guard
    cells.
-!- INDUCTION: In roots, strongly reduced after 2,4-
    dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) treatment and weakly reduced
    after benzyladenine (BA) treatment. In shoots, strongly reduced
    after abscisic acid (ABA) treatment and induced after
    benzyladenine (BA) treatment.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids. The
    pore-forming region H5 is enclosed by the transmembrane segments
    S5 and S6 in the Shaker-type (1P/6TM) and contains the GYGD
    signature motif which seems to be involved in potassium
    selectivity.
-!- DOMAIN: The KHA domain (rich in hydrophobic and acidic residues)
    present in the C-terminal part is likely to be important for
    tetramerization.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel (TC 1.A.1.4) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 6 ANK repeats.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 cyclic nucleotide-binding domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 KHA domain.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
ANK repeat; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Potassium;
Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
