AC   P06971; P71280; P75665;
Ferrichrome-iron receptor precursor (Ferric hydroxamate uptake)
(Ferric hydroxamate receptor).
"Protein fusions of beta-galactosidase to the ferrichrome-iron
receptor of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Systematic sequencing of the Escherichia coli genome: analysis of the
2.4-4.1 min (110,917-193,643 bp) region.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Sequence of minutes 4-25 of Escherichia coli.";
"Nucleotide sequence of the fhuC and fhuD genes involved in iron (III)
hydroxamate transport: domains in FhuC homologous to ATP-binding
proteins.";
"Energy-coupled transport through the outer membrane of Escherichia
coli small deletions in the gating loop convert the FhuA transport
protein into a diffusion channel.";
"FhuA, a transporter of the Escherichia coli outer membrane, is
converted into a channel upon binding of bacteriophage T5.";
"Siderophore-mediated iron transport: crystal structure of FhuA with
bound lipopolysaccharide.";
"Transmembrane signaling across the ligand-gated FhuA receptor:
crystal structures of free and ferrichrome-bound states reveal
allosteric changes.";
"Crystal structure of the antibiotic albomycin in complex with the
outer membrane transporter FhuA.";
-!- FUNCTION: This receptor binds the ferrichrome-iron ligand. It
    interacts with the tonB protein, which is responsible for energy
    coupling of the ferrichrome-promoted iron transport system. Acts
    as a receptor for bacteriophage T5 as well as T1, phi80 and
    colicin M. Binding of T5 triggers the opening of a high
    conductance ion channel. Can also transport the antibiotic
    albomycin.
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell outer membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the tonB-dependent receptor family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing;
Ion transport; Iron; Iron transport; Membrane; Outer membrane;
Phage recognition; Receptor; Signal; TonB box; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWENTYTWO
