AC   P46889; P77450;
DNA translocase ftsK.
"A new Escherichia coli cell division gene, ftsK.";
"A 718-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 12.7-28.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Membrane topology of the N-terminus of the Escherichia coli FtsK
division protein.";
"FtsQ, FtsL and FtsI require FtsK, but not FtsN, for co-localization
with FtsZ during Escherichia coli cell division.";
"ZipA is required for recruitment of FtsK, FtsQ, FtsL, and FtsN to the
septal ring in Escherichia coli.";
"FtsK is a DNA motor protein that activates chromosome dimer
resolution by switching the catalytic state of the XerC and XerD
recombinases.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: DNA motor protein, which is both required to move DNA
    out of the region of the septum during cell division and for the
    septum formation. Tracks DNA in an ATP-dependent manner by
    generating positive supercoils in front of it and negative
    supercoils behind it. Also plays a role in resolution of dimer
    chromosomes by regulating the xerC and xerD recombination complex,
    possibly by switching the catalytic state of the two recombinases.
    Required for the targeting of ftsQ, ftsL and ftsI to the septum.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homohexamer. This suggests the formation of a ring
    between the two cells at the septum that surrounds DNA.
-!- INTERACTION:
    P0AFG8:aceE; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-550795, EBI-542683;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein; cytoplasmic side. Note=Located at the septum. The large
    C-terminal part of the protein is cytoplasmic. Colocalizes with
    ftsZ. ZipA is required to target it to the septum.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminus domain is sufficient for the localization
    to the septal ring.
-!- DOMAIN: The hexamerization domain is required for the formation of
    a homohexamer, suggesting the formation of a ring between the two
    cells that surrounds DNA.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 FtsK domain.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
3D-structure; ATP-binding; Cell cycle; Cell division;
Chromosome partition; Complete proteome; DNA-binding; Inner membrane;
Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Transmembrane.
TMFIVE
