AC   Q9H936; Q8TBU8;
Mitochondrial glutamate carrier 1 (GC-1) (Glutamate/H(+) symporter 1)
(Solute carrier family 25 member 22).
"Identification of the mitochondrial glutamate transporter. Bacterial
expression, reconstitution, functional characterization, and tissue
distribution of two human isoforms.";
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Impaired mitochondrial glutamate transport in autosomal recessive
neonatal myoclonic epilepsy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in the transport of glutamate across the inner
    mitochondrial membrane. Glutamate is cotransported with H(+).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Mitochondrion; mitochondrial inner membrane;
    multi-pass membrane protein (Potential).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in most tissues.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC25A22 are a cause of early myoclonic
    encephalopathy (EME) [MIM:609304]; also known as neonatal epilepsy
    with suppression-burst pattern. Severe neonatal epilepsies with
    suppression-burst pattern are early-onset epileptic syndromes
    characterized by a typical EEG pattern. The suppression-burst
    pattern of the EEG is characterized by higher-voltage bursts of
    slow waves mixed with multifocal spikes alternating with
    isoelectric suppression phases. EME is characterized by a very
    early onset, erratic and fragmentary myoclonus, massive myoclonus,
    partial motor seizures and late tonic spasms. The prognosis of EME
    is poor, with no effective treatment, and children with the
    condition either die within 1 to 2 years after birth or survive in
    a persistent vegetative state. EME inheritance is autosomal
    recessive.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 Solcar repeats.
 GO:0005743; C:mitochondrial inner membrane; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005386; F:carrier activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005313; F:L-glutamate transporter activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015813; P:glutamate transport; IDA:UniProtKB.
Disease mutation; Inner membrane; Membrane; Mitochondrion; Repeat;
Symport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFIVE
