AC   P0AER0; P11244; Q2M8M3; Q46727;
Glycerol uptake facilitator protein (Aquaglyceroporin).
"Nucleotide sequence of the region encompassing the glpKF operon and
its upstream region containing a bent DNA sequence of Escherichia
coli.";
"Structure and regulation of the glpFK operon encoding glycerol
diffusion facilitator and glycerol kinase of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Escherichia coli HB101 nucleotide sequence of the glycerol diffusion
facilitator protein gene.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome. III. DNA sequence of the
region from 87.2 to 89.2 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Substrate specificity and transport properties of the glycerol
facilitator of Escherichia coli.";
"Reconstitution and functional comparison of purified GlpF and AqpZ,
the glycerol and water channels from Escherichia coli.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Structure of a glycerol-conducting channel and the basis for its
selectivity.";
"Fraternal twins: AQP1 and GlpF.";
"Control of the selectivity of the aquaporin water channel family by
global orientational tuning.";
-!- FUNCTION: Transporter of glycerol across the cytoplasmic membrane,
    with limited permeability to water and small uncharged compounds
    such as polyols.
-!- COFACTOR: Binds 2 magnesium ions per subunit.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer (Potential).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- DOMAIN: Aquaporins contain two tandem repeats each containing
    three membrane-spanning domains and a pore-forming loop with the
    signature motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The remarkable property of effective water
    conductance combined with a strict exclusion of all ions including
    protons is mediated by two conserved asparagines which force a
    central water molecule to serve strictly as a hydrogen bond donor
    to its neighboring water molecules. Assisted by the electrostatic
    potential generated by two half-membrane spanning loops, this
    dictates opposite orientations of water molecules in the two
    halves of the channel, and thus prevents the formation of a
    "proton wire", while permitting rapid water diffusion.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the MIP/aquaporin (TC 1.A.8) family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Magnesium; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMEIGHT
