AC   P23415; Q14C77; Q6DJV9;
Glycine receptor subunit alpha-1 precursor (Glycine receptor 48 kDa
subunit) (Glycine receptor strychnine-binding subunit).
"Alpha subunit variants of the human glycine receptor: primary
structures, functional expression and chromosomal localization of the
corresponding genes.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"NMR structure and backbone dynamics of the extended second
transmembrane domain of the human neuronal glycine receptor alpha1
subunit.";
"Structure and dynamics of the second and third transmembrane domains
of human glycine receptor.";
"Mutations in the alpha 1 subunit of the inhibitory glycine receptor
cause the dominant neurologic disorder, hyperekplexia.";
"Mutational and haplotype analysis of the aplha1 subunit of the
glycine receptor in hyperekplexia patients.";
"Decreased agonist affinity and chloride conductance of mutant glycine
receptors associated with human hereditary hyperekplexia.";
"An additional family with Startle disease and a G1192A mutation at
the alpha 1 subunit of the inhibitory glycine receptor gene.";
"Evidence for recessive as well as dominant forms of startle disease
(hyperekplexia) caused by mutations in the alpha 1 subunit of the
inhibitory glycine receptor.";
"Mutational analysis of familial and sporadic hyperekplexia.";
"A novel mutation (Gln266-->His) in the alpha 1 subunit of the
inhibitory glycine-receptor gene (GLRA1) in hereditary
hyperekplexia.";
"Analysis of GLRA1 in hereditary and sporadic hyperekplexia: a novel
mutation in a family cosegregating for hyperekplexia and spastic
paraparesis.";
"Startle disease in an Italian family by mutation (K276E): the alpha-
subunit of the inhibiting glycine receptor.";
"Hyperekplexia phenotype due to compound heterozygosity for GLRA1 gene
mutations.";
"Novel GLRA1 missense mutation (P250T) in dominant hyperekplexia
defines an intracellular determinant of glycine receptor channel
gating.";
-!- FUNCTION: The glycine receptor is a neurotransmitter-gated ion
    channel. Binding of glycine to its receptor increases the chloride
    conductance and thus produces hyperpolarization (inhibition of
    neuronal firing).
-!- SUBUNIT: Pentamer composed of alpha and beta subunits.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=a;
      IsoId=P23415-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=b;
      IsoId=P23415-2; Sequence=VSP_021142;
-!- DISEASE: Defects in GLRA1 are a cause of startle disease (STHE)
    [MIM:149400]; also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital
    stiff-person syndrome. STHE is a genetically heterogeneous
    neurologic disorder characterized by muscular rigidity of central
    nervous system origin, particularly in the neonatal period, and by
    an exaggerated startle response to unexpected acoustic or tactile
    stimuli. Inheritance can be autosomal dominant or recessive.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The alpha subunit binds strychnine.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ligand-gated ionic channel (TC 1.A.9)
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=GLRA1".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0016594; F:glycine binding; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0016934; F:glycine-gated chloride channel activity; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0004891; F:glycine-inhibited chloride channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007166; P:cell surface receptor linked signal transdu...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007399; P:nervous system development; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0042391; P:regulation of membrane potential; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0001964; P:startle response; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0007268; P:synaptic transmission; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Alternative splicing; Chloride; Chloride channel;
Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Postsynaptic membrane; Receptor; Signal; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMFOUR
