AC   Q94A76; Q9FNY5;
Potassium channel GORK (Guard cell outward rectifying K(+) channel)
(AtGORK).
"GORK, a delayed outward rectifier expressed in guard cells of
Arabidopsis thaliana, is a K(+)-selective, K(+)-sensing ion channel.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 5 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"K(+) channel profile and electrical properties of Arabidopsis root
hairs.";
"Phylogenetic relationships within cation transporter families of
Arabidopsis.";
"The Arabidopsis outward K(+) channel GORK is involved in regulation
of stomatal movements and plant transpiration.";
"Regulation of the ABA-sensitive Arabidopsis potassium channel gene
GORK in response to water stress.";
-!- FUNCTION: Major selective outward-rectifying potassium channel of
    the guard cell membrane. Involved in regulation of stomatal
    movements according to the water status. Assuming opened or closed
    conformations in response to the voltage difference across the
    membrane, the channel is activated by depolarization. Conductance
    of the channel is modulated in a potassium-dependent fashion. May
    interact with the cytoskeleton or with regulatory proteins.
-!- SUBUNIT: The potassium channel is probably composed of a homo- or
    heterotetrameric complex of pore-forming subunits (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in guard cell-containing tissues, in
    root epidermal cells and in root hairs. Detected in vascular cells
    of the root and shoot.
-!- INDUCTION: Up-regulated under drought, salt stress and cold
    conditions. Induced by abscisic acid (ABA) treatment in roots and
    shoots but not in guard cells.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids. The
    pore-forming region H5 is enclosed by the transmembrane segments
    S5 and S6 in the Shaker-type (1P/6TM) and contains the GYGD
    signature motif which seems to be involved in potassium
    selectivity.
-!- DOMAIN: The KHA domain (rich in hydrophobic and acidic residues)
    present in the C-terminal part is likely to be important for
    tetramerization.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel (TC 1.A.1.4) family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 6 ANK repeats.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 cyclic nucleotide-binding domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 KHA domain.
ANK repeat; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Potassium;
Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Repeat; Transmembrane;
Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
