AC   P11168;
Solute carrier family 2, facilitated glucose transporter member 2
(Glucose transporter type 2, liver).
"Sequence, tissue distribution, and chromosomal localization of mRNA
encoding a human glucose transporter-like protein.";
"Variability of the pancreatic islet beta cell/liver (GLUT 2) glucose
transporter gene in NIDDM patients.";
"A mutation in the Glut2 glucose transporter gene of a diabetic
patient abolishes transport activity.";
"A mutation in GLUT2, not in phosphorylase kinase subunits, in hepato-
renal glycogenosis with Fanconi syndrome and low phosphorylase kinase
activity.";
"Mutation analysis of the GLUT2 gene in patients with Fanconi-Bickel
syndrome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Facilitative glucose transporter. This isoform likely
    mediates the bidirectional transfer of glucose across the plasma
    membrane of hepatocytes and is responsible for uptake of glucose
    by the beta cells; may comprise part of the glucose-sensing
    mechanism of the beta cell. May also participate with the
    Na(+)/glucose cotransporter in the transcellular transport of
    glucose in the small intestine and kidney.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Liver, insulin-producing beta cell, small
    intestine and kidney.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in SLC2A2 are the cause of Fanconi-Bickel
    syndrome (FBS) [MIM:227810]. FBS is a rare, well-defined clinical
    entity, inherited in an autosomal recessive mode and characterized
    by hepatorenal glycogen accumulation, proximal renal tubular
    dysfunction, and impaired utilization of glucose and galactose.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar
    transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. Glucose transporter subfamily.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005355; F:glucose transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005975; P:carbohydrate metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015758; P:glucose transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Polymorphism; Sugar transport; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWELVE
