AC   O88704; O54899; Q9D613;
Potassium/sodium hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated
channel 1 (Brain cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 1) (BCNG-1)
(Hyperpolarization-activated cation channel 2) (HAC-2).
"Interactive cloning with the SH3 domain of N-src identifies a new
brain specific ion channel protein, with homology to eag and cyclic
nucleotide-gated channels.";
"A family of hyperpolarization-activated cation channels.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"Identification of a gene encoding a hyperpolarization-activated
'pacemaker' channel of brain.";
"MinK-related peptide 1: a beta subunit for the HCN ion channel
subunit family enhances expression and speeds activation.";
"Molecular mechanism of cAMP modulation of HCN pacemaker channels.";
"Hyperpolarization-activated channels HCN1 and HCN4 mediate responses
to sour stimuli.";
"Dominant-negative suppression of HCN1- and HCN2-encoded pacemaker
currents by an engineered HCN1 construct: insights into structure-
function relationships and multimerization.";
"Different roles for the cyclic nucleotide binding domain and amino
terminus in assembly and expression of hyperpolarization-activated,
cyclic nucleotide-gated channels.";
"An external determinant in the S5-P linker of the pacemaker (HCN)
channel identified by sulfhydryl modification.";
-!- FUNCTION: Hyperpolarization-activated ion channel exhibiting weak
    selectivity for potassium over sodium ions. Contributes to the
    native pacemaker currents in heart (If) and in neurons (Ih).
    Activated by cAMP, and at 10-100 times higher concentrations, also
    by cGMP. May mediate responses to sour stimuli.
-!- SUBUNIT: The potassium channel is probably composed of a homo- or
    heterotetrameric complex of pore-forming subunits. Heteromultimer
    with HCN2. Interacts with KCNE2. Interacts with the SH3 domain of
    CSK.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Predominantly expressed in brain. Highly
    expressed in apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in the cortex,
    in the layer corresponding to the stratum lacunosum-moleculare in
    the hippocampus and in axons of basket cells in the cerebellum.
    Expressed in a subset of elongated cells in taste buds.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids at
    every third position.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Inhibited by extracellular cesium ions.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel family. HCN
    subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 cyclic nucleotide-binding domain.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.3 sequence differs from that shown due to a
    frameshift in position 381.
 GO:0030424; C:axon; IDA:MGI.
cAMP; cAMP-binding; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Potassium; Potassium channel;
Potassium transport; Sodium; Sodium channel; Sodium transport;
Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSEVEN
