AC   Q06497;
Peroxisomal adenine nucleotide transporter 1.
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome XVI.";
"Identification and functional reconstitution of the yeast peroxisomal
adenine nucleotide transporter.";
"Identification of a peroxisomal ATP carrier required for medium-chain
fatty acid beta-oxidation and normal peroxisome proliferation in
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"The peroxisomal transporter gene ANT1 is regulated by a deviant
oleate response element (ORE): characterization of the signal for
fatty acid induction.";
"Global analysis of protein localization in budding yeast.";
"Global analysis of protein expression in yeast.";
"The yeast peroxisomal adenine nucleotide transporter:
characterization of two transport modes and involvement in DeltapH
formation across peroxisomal membranes.";
"The peroxisomal lumen in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is alkaline.";
-!- FUNCTION: Adenine nucleotide transporter involved in the uniport
    of ATP and adenine nucleotide hetero-exchange transport between
    the cytosol and the peroxisomal lumen. This transport is
    accompanied by a proton transport from the peroxisomal lumen to
    the cytosol. Transport of ATP into the peroxisome is required for
    beta-oxydation of medium-chain fatty acids. Required for growth on
    medium-chain fatty acids, pH gradient formation in peroxisomes and
    for normal peroxisome proliferation.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Peroxisome; peroxisomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein.
-!- INDUCTION: Induced by oleic acid, through its ORE-like (oleate
    responsive element) promoter element and the PIP2-OAF1
    transcription factors.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Present with 2250 molecules/cell.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the mitochondrial carrier family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 3 Solcar repeats.
 GO:0005737; C:cytoplasm; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0005779; C:integral to peroxisomal membrane; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0000295; F:adenine nucleotide transporter activity; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0015867; P:ATP transport; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0006635; P:fatty acid beta-oxidation; IGI:SGD.
 GO:0007031; P:peroxisome organization and biogenesis; IMP:SGD.
Complete proteome; Hydrogen ion transport; Ion transport; Membrane;
Peroxisome; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
