AC   Q84TI7; O82614; Q68KI5; Q9M570; Q9SV90;
Sodium transporter HKT1 (AtHKT1).
"The Arabidopsis HKT1 gene homolog mediates inward Na(+) currents in
Xenopus laevis oocytes and Na(+) uptake in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 4 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"Evidence in support of a four transmembrane-pore-transmembrane
topology model for the Arabidopsis thaliana Na+/K+ translocating
AtHKT1 protein, a member of the superfamily of K+ transporters.";
"AtHKT1 is a salt tolerance determinant that controls Na(+) entry into
plant roots.";
"Glycine residues in potassium channel-like selectivity filters
determine potassium selectivity in four-loop-per-subunit HKT
transporters from plants.";
"Altered shoot/root Na+ distribution and bifurcating salt sensitivity
in Arabidopsis by genetic disruption of the Na+ transporter AtHKT1.";
"Functional analysis of AtHKT1 in Arabidopsis shows that Na(+)
recirculation by the phloem is crucial for salt tolerance.";
"AtHKT1 facilitates Na+ homeostasis and K+ nutrition in planta.";
"Microarray-based rapid cloning of an ion accumulation deletion mutant
in Arabidopsis thaliana.";
-!- FUNCTION: Sodium transporter protein, which plays a central role
    in plant tolerance to salt. Upon prolongated exposure to high
    concentrations, Na(+) translocates from the roots to the
    transpiring leaves where it can increase to toxic level. Involved
    in Na(+) recirculation from shoots to roots, probably by mediating
    Na(+) loading into the phloem sap in shoots and unloading in
    roots, thereby removing large amounts of Na(+) from the shoot.
    Does not transport K(+) but regulates K(+) nutrient status via its
    ability to facilitate Na(+) homeostasis. Probably not involved in
    root uptake of Na(+).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Highly expressed in roots. Expressed in
    flowers, leaves and stems. Expressed in the vascular tissues of
    every organs. In roots, leaves and flower peduncles, it is only
    expressed in the phloem tissues. Not expressed in root peripheral
    cells.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated. Not essential for functional expression and
    membrane targeting.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: In contrast to K(+) channel proteins, it lacks a
    conserved Gly at position 68, explaining why it does not act as a
    K(+) transporter.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the trkH potassium transport family. HKT
    subfamily.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.3 sequence differs from that shown due to erroneous
    gene model prediction.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Membrane; Potassium; Potassium transport;
Sodium; Sodium transport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMEIGHT
