AC   P09616;
Alpha-hemolysin precursor (Alpha-toxin) (Alpha-HL).
"Primary sequence of the alpha-toxin gene from Staphylococcus aureus
wood 46.";
"Functional expression of the alpha-hemolysin of Staphylococcus aureus
in intact Escherichia coli and in cell lysates. Deletion of five C-
terminal amino acids selectively impairs hemolytic activity.";
"Structure of staphylococcal alpha-hemolysin, a heptameric
transmembrane pore.";
"Assembly of the oligomeric membrane pore formed by Staphylococcal
alpha-hemolysin examined by truncation mutagenesis.";
"Site-directed mutagenesis of the alpha-toxin gene of Staphylococcus
aureus: role of histidines in toxin activity in vitro and in a murine
model.";
"Histidine residues near the N-terminus of staphylococcal alpha-toxin
as reporters of regions that are critical for oligomerization and pore
formation.";
"Key residues for membrane binding, oligomerization, and pore forming
activity of staphylococcal alpha-hemolysin identified by cysteine
scanning mutagenesis and targeted chemical modification.";
-!- FUNCTION: Alpha-toxin binds to the membrane of eukaryotic cells
    resulting in the release of low-molecular weight molecules and
    leading to an eventual osmotic lysis. Heptamer oligomerization and
    pore formation is required for lytic activity.
-!- SUBUNIT: Self-assembles to form first, a non-lytic oligomeric
    intermediate, and then, a mushroom-shaped homoheptamer structure
    of 100 Angstroms in length and up to 100 Angstroms in diameter.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Secreted as a
    monomer. After oligomerization and pore formation, the complex is
    translocated across the bilayer, probably via the Gly-rich domain
    of each strand.
-!- DOMAIN: The mushroom-shaped heptamer is composed of a cap domain
    (comprising 7 beta sandwiches and the amino latches of each
    protomer), 7 rim regions whose protruding strands may interact
    with the membrane bilayer, and the stem domain (52 Angstroms in
    length, 26 Angstroms in diameter) which forms the transmembrane
    pore.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the aerolysin family.
3D-structure; Cytolysis; Direct protein sequencing; Hemolysis; Signal;
Toxin.
TMZERO
