AC   P08716;
Alpha-hemolysin translocation ATP-binding protein hlyB.
"Nucleotide sequence of a plasmid-encoded hemolysin determinant and
its comparison with a corresponding chromosomal hemolysin sequence.";
"TolC, an Escherichia coli outer membrane protein required for
hemolysin secretion.";
"Topological and functional studies on HlyB of Escherichia coli.";
"Analysis of the membrane organization of an Escherichia coli protein
translocator, HlyB, a member of a large family of prokaryote and
eukaryote surface transport proteins.";
"Crystal structure of the nucleotide-binding domain of the ABC-
transporter haemolysin B: identification of a variable region within
ABC helical domains.";
"Secretion of haemolysin by Escherichia coli.";
"Bacterial ABC transporters involved in protein translocation.";
-!- FUNCTION: Part of the ABC transporter complex hlyBD involved in
    hemolysin export. Transmembrane domains (TMD) form a pore in the
    inner membrane and the ATP-binding domain (NBD) is responsible for
    energy generation.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein (Probable).
-!- DOMAIN: In hlyB the peptidase C39 domain, the ATP-binding domain
    (NBD) and the transmembrane domain (TMD) are fused.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The complex hlyBD-tolC (OMF) forms a single
    transport channel across the two membranes, allowing direct export
    of alpha-hemolysin. This channel is involved in type 1 secretion
    system.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. Protein-1
    exporter (TC 3.A.1.109) subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transmembrane type-1 domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transporter domain.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 peptidase C39 domain.
-!- CAUTION: Tyr-9 is present instead of the conserved Cys which is
    expected to be the active site residue of peptidase C39. Thus this
    protein is presumed to be without peptidase activity.
3D-structure; ATP-binding; Hydrolase; Inner membrane; Membrane;
Nucleotide-binding; Plasmid; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFIVE
