AC   P77335; Q47276; Q8VU70; Q9R3G4;
Hemolysin E, chromosomal (Hemolysis-inducing protein) (Silent
hemolysin sheA) (Cytotoxin clyA) (Latent pore-forming 34 kDa
hemolysin).
"The Escherichia coli K-12 sheA gene encodes a 34-kDa secreted
haemolysin.";
"Analysis of the SlyA-controlled expression, subcellular localization
and pore-forming activity of a 34 kDa haemolysin (ClyA) from
Escherichia coli K-12.";
"A 718-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 12.7-28.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Molecular analysis of the cytolytic protein ClyA (SheA) from
Escherichia coli.";
"Vesicle-mediated export and assembly of pore-forming oligomers of the
enterobacterial clyA cytotoxin.";
"Structure-function relationships of a novel bacterial toxin,
hemolysin E. The role of alpha G.";
"Silencing and activation of ClyA cytotoxin expression in Escherichia
coli.";
"Differential regulation of multiple proteins of Escherichia coli and
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium by the transcriptional
regulator SlyA.";
"Characterization of dominantly negative mutant ClyA cytotoxin
proteins in Escherichia coli.";
"E. coli hemolysin E (HlyE, ClyA, SheA): X-ray crystal structure of
the toxin and observation of membrane pores by electron microscopy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Toxin, which has some hemolytic activity towards
    mammalian cells. Acts by forming a pore-like structure upon
    contact with mammalian cells.
-!- SUBUNIT: Monomer and oligomer. In periplasm, it is present as a
    monomer, while in outer membrane vesicles, it oligomerizes to form
    a pore structure that is active. Probably forms an octamer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Periplasm. Note=Exported
    from the cell by outer membrane vesicles. Also found in the
    periplasmic space.
-!- INDUCTION: During anaerobic growth. Weakly or not expressed in
    most strains. It is activated by slyA, while it is silenced by H-
    NS. Its expression is also regulated by CRP and FNR.
-!- PTM: In periplasm, it forms a disulfide bond between Cys-86 and
    Cys-284, which prevents the oligomerization. In outer membrane
    vesicles, the redox status prevents formation of the disulfide
    bond, leading to oligomerization and pore formation.
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=34940; METHOD=Electrospray; RANGE=1-302;
    NOTE=Ref.13.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the hemolysin E family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Cytolysis; Direct protein sequencing;
Hemolysis; Membrane; Toxin; Transmembrane.
TMONE
