AC   P04035; Q8N190;
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (EC 1.1.1.34) (HMG-CoA
reductase).
"Human 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase. Conserved
domains responsible for catalytic activity and sterol-regulated
degradation.";
"Human HMG-CoA reductase gene.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Crystal structure of the catalytic portion of human HMG-CoA
reductase: insights into regulation of activity and catalysis.";
"Structural mechanism for statin inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase.";
"Characterization of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in coding regions
of human genes.";
-!- FUNCTION: This transmembrane glycoprotein is involved in the
    control of cholesterol biosynthesis. It is the rate-limiting
    enzyme of sterol biosynthesis.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: (R)-mevalonate + CoA + 2 NADP(+) = (S)-3-
    hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA + 2 NADPH.
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: Inhibited by statins, a class of hypolipidemic
    agents used as pharmaceuticals to lower cholesterol levels in
    people at risk for cardiovascular disease because of
    hypercholesterolemia. Inhibition of HMGCR in the liver stimulates
    the LDL-receptors, which results in an increased clearance of LDL
    from the bloodstream and a decrease in blood cholesterol levels.
    The first results can be seen after one week of use and the effect
    is maximal after four to six weeks.
-!- PATHWAY: Metabolic intermediate biosynthesis; mevalonate
    biosynthesis; R-mevalonate from acetyl-CoA: step 3 [final step].
-!- PATHWAY: Context: Cholesterol biosynthesis.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homodimer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein. Peroxisome; peroxisomal
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=P04035-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=P04035-2; Sequence=VSP_002207;
      Note=No experimental confirmation available;
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the HMG-CoA reductase family.
 GO:0005789; C:endoplasmic reticulum membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008354; P:germ cell migration; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0008406; P:gonad development; TAS:ProtInc.
3D-structure; Alternative splicing; Cholesterol biosynthesis;
Endoplasmic reticulum; Glycoprotein; Lipid synthesis; Membrane; NADP;
Oxidoreductase; Peroxisome; Polymorphism; Steroid biosynthesis;
Sterol biosynthesis; Transmembrane.
TMSEVEN
