AC   P35674; O31180;
Harpin hrpZ (HrpZ-Pss protein) (Harpin-Pss).
"Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae harpinPss: a protein that is
secreted via the Hrp pathway and elicits the hypersensitive response
in plants.";
"Amplification, sequence and expression of the hrpZ gene of the
bacterial canker pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae strain
NV.";
"Identification of a putative alternate sigma factor and
characterization of a multicomponent regulatory cascade controlling
the expression of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae Pss61 hrp and hrmA
genes.";
"The HrpZ proteins of Pseudomonas syringae pvs. syringae, glycinea,
and tomato are encoded by an operon containing Yersinia ysc homologs
and elicit the hypersensitive response in tomato but not soybean.";
"The complete hrp gene cluster of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae 61
includes two blocks of genes required for harpinPss secretion that are
arranged colinearly with Yersinia ysc homologs.";
"The interaction of harpinPss, with plant cell walls.";
"An amphipathic protein from sweet pepper can dissociate harpinPss
multimeric forms and intensify the harpinPss-mediated hypersensitive
response.";
-!- FUNCTION: Harpins are proteins able to elicit hypersensitive
    response (HR) in non-host plants and are required for
    pathogenicity in host plants. HrpZ forms ion-conducting pores
    permeable for cations. Such pore-forming activity may allow
    nutrient release and/or delivery of virulence factors during
    bacterial colonization of host plants (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Homomultimeric.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein (By similarity).
    Note=Secreted via type III secretion system (TTSS), delivered into
    the host intercellular space. HrpZ travels through the hrp pilus
    and it is secreted only from the pilus tip (By similarity).
-!- INDUCTION: Regulated by hrpRS and hrpL.
-!- DOMAIN: The glycine-rich region is characteristic of harpins.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the harpin hrpZ family.
Direct protein sequencing; Hypersensitive response elicitation;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Repeat; Transport; Virulence.
TMZERO
