AC   Q7BCK4; Q52298; Q6WE27; Q99Q93;
Outer membrane protein icsA precursor.
"virG, a plasmid-coded virulence gene of Shigella flexneri:
identification of the virG protein and determination of the complete
coding sequence.";
"The virulence plasmid pWR100 and the repertoire of proteins secreted
by the type III secretion apparatus of Shigella flexneri.";
"Complete DNA sequence and analysis of the large virulence plasmid of
Shigella flexneri.";
"Comparison of two major forms of the Shigella virulence plasmid pINV:
positive selection is a major force driving the divergence.";
"Genome sequence of Shigella flexneri 2a: insights into pathogenicity
through comparison with genomes of Escherichia coli K12 and O157.";
"Unipolar localization and ATPase activity of IcsA, a Shigella
flexneri protein involved in intracellular movement.";
"Cleavage of Shigella surface protein VirG occurs at a specific site,
but the secretion is not essential for intracellular spreading.";
"A dual transcriptional activation system for the 230 kb plasmid genes
coding for virulence-associated antigens of Shigella flexneri.";
"Identification of icsA, a plasmid locus of Shigella flexneri that
governs bacterial intra- and intercellular spread through interaction
with F-actin.";
"Phosphorylation of IcsA by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and its
effect on intracellular spread of Shigella flexneri.";
"Extracellular transport of VirG protein in Shigella.";
"Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein is implicated in the actin-
based motility of Shigella flexneri.";
"Activation of the CDC42 effector N-WASP by the Shigella flexneri IcsA
protein promotes actin nucleation by Arp2/3 complex and bacterial
actin-based motility.";
"The unipolar Shigella surface protein IcsA is targeted directly to
the bacterial old pole: IcsP cleavage of IcsA occurs over the entire
bacterial surface.";
"Polar targeting of Shigella virulence factor IcsA in
Enterobacteriacae and Vibrio.";
"IcsA, a polarly localized autotransporter with an atypical signal
peptide, uses the Sec apparatus for secretion, although the Sec
apparatus is circumferentially distributed.";
"Escape of intracellular Shigella from autophagy.";
-!- FUNCTION: Essential for bacterial spreading by eliciting polar
    deposition of filamentous actin (actin-based motility). Inside the
    host cell mediates nucleation and polymerization of actin
    molecules on the bacterial surface, which provides the propulsive
    force for intracellular movement and intercellular dissemination
    of the bacterium. During invasion of mammalian cells, triggers
    autophagy by binding to APG5L. Interaction with icsB leads to
    escape from the autophagic host defense system. Also binds ATP and
    displays weak ATPase activity.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms a ternary complex with host WASL (neural Wiskott-
    Aldrich syndrome protein) and ARP2/3. IcsA enhances the affinity
    of WASL for ARP2/3, thus assembling a tight complex which has
    maximal activity in actin assembly. Also binds directly to host
    vinculin, which may serve as an actin filament recruiter.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Note=Integral membrane protein. Outer
    membrane protein localized as a cap over the old pole of the
    bacterial surface.
-!- INDUCTION: Transcriptionally regulated by virF.
-!- DOMAIN: The signal peptide, cleaved at the inner membrane, guides
    icsA to the periplasmic space. Then, insertion of the beta domain
    (or autotransporter domain) in the outer membrane forms a beta
    barrel channel structure for the translocation of the alpha domain
    to the bacterial cell surface. The alpha domain is cleaved by icsP
    (sopA) and released into the extracellular medium. This cleavage
    is important for the maintenance of the sharply polarized
    distribution of icsA but is not a prerequisite for intracellular
    spreading.
-!- DOMAIN: The glycine-rich domain interacts with the WASL CRIB
    domain.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by host cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which
    may represent a host defense mechanism during the invasion
    process.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Secretion across inner membrane is dependent on the
    secA and secYEG apparatus. However, the polar localization comes
    before secretion and is independent of secA.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Deletion experiments show that amino acids 58-103,
    505-537 and 507-729 are required for polar localization and that
    amino acids 102-779 are responsible for interaction with APG5L and
    icsB.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 autotransporter (TC 1.B.12) domain.
Complete proteome; Direct protein sequencing; Membrane;
Outer membrane; Phosphorylation; Plasmid; Signal; Transmembrane;
Virulence.
TMFIFTEEN
