AC   P18013; Q6XVZ1;
Invasin ipaD (36 kDa membrane antigen).
"Characterization of invasion plasmid antigen genes (ipaBCD) from
Shigella flexneri.";
"Functional organization and nucleotide sequence of virulence region-2
on the large virulence plasmid in Shigella flexneri 2a.";
"The virulence plasmid pWR100 and the repertoire of proteins secreted
by the type III secretion apparatus of Shigella flexneri.";
"Complete DNA sequence and analysis of the large virulence plasmid of
Shigella flexneri.";
"Comparison of two major forms of the Shigella virulence plasmid pINV:
positive selection is a major force driving the divergence.";
"Genome sequence of Shigella flexneri 2a: insights into pathogenicity
through comparison with genomes of Escherichia coli K12 and O157.";
"Nucleotide sequence of the invasion plasmid antigen B and C genes
(ipaB and ipaC) of Shigella flexneri.";
"The secretion of the Shigella flexneri Ipa invasins is activated by
epithelial cells and controlled by IpaB and IpaD.";
"IpaD of Shigella flexneri is independently required for regulation of
Ipa protein secretion and efficient insertion of IpaB and IpaC into
host membranes.";
-!- FUNCTION: Required for bacterial invasion of host cells. Controls
    ipaB and ipaC secretion, and the efficiency with which they are
    physically inserted into target cell membranes. These proteins are
    exported via TTSS to form a pore in the host membrane that allows
    the translocation of the other effectors into host cytoplasm.
    Along with ipaB, is essential for both blocking secretion through
    the Mxi/Spa translocon in the absence of a secretion-inducing
    signal, and for controlling the level of secretion in the presence
    of this signal.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Secreted via type III
    secretion system (TTSS). Associates transiently with ipaB in the
    bacterial envelope.
-!- INDUCTION: Synthesis of this immunogen is repressed at 30 degrees
    Celsius and restored at 37 degrees Celsius.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Deletion of amino acids 1-20 abolishes invasion
    activity, affects contact-mediated hemolysis activity and ipaD
    secretion. Deletion of amino acids 41-80 and 81-120 restores
    invasion activity to a higher level than wild-type and reduces
    contact-mediated hemolysis activity. Deletion beyond amino acid
    120 reduces invasion activity and abolishes contact-mediated
    hemolysis activity.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sipD/ipaD family.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Plasmid; Virulence.
TMZERO
