AC   P48048; Q6LD67;
ATP-sensitive inward rectifier potassium channel 1 (Potassium channel,
inwardly rectifying subfamily J member 1) (ATP-regulated potassium
channel ROM-K) (Kir1.1).
"Cloning and characterization of multiple forms of the human kidney
ROM-K potassium channel.";
"Alternative splicing of human inwardly rectifying K+ channel ROMK1
mRNA.";
"Nucleotide sequence analysis of the human KCNJ1 potassium channel
locus.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Isolation and chromosomal localization of a human ATP-regulated
potassium channel.";
"Genetic heterogeneity of Bartter's syndrome revealed by mutations in
the K+ channel, ROMK.";
"Mutations in the gene encoding the inwardly-rectifying renal
potassium channel, ROMK, cause the antenatal variant of Bartter
syndrome: evidence for genetic heterogeneity.";
"A hyperprostaglandin E syndrome mutation in Kir1.1 (renal outer
medullary potassium) channels reveals a crucial residue for channel
function in Kir1.3 channels.";
-!- FUNCTION: In the kidney, probably plays a major role in potassium
    homeostasis. Inward rectifier potassium channels are characterized
    by a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into the cell
    rather than out of it. Their voltage dependence is regulated by
    the concentration of extracellular potassium; as external
    potassium is raised, the voltage range of the channel opening
    shifts to more positive voltages. The inward rectification is
    mainly due to the blockage of outward current by internal
    magnesium. This channel is activated by internal ATP and can be
    blocked by external barium.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=3;
    Name=1; Synonyms=ROM-K1;
      IsoId=P48048-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=2-4-5, ROM-K2, ROM-K4, ROM-K5, ROM-K6;
      IsoId=P48048-2; Sequence=VSP_002797;
    Name=3; Synonyms=ROM-K3;
      IsoId=P48048-3; Sequence=VSP_002798;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: In the kidney and pancreatic islets. Lower
    levels in skeletal muscle, pancreas, spleen, brain, heart and
    liver.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KCNJ1 are the cause of antenatal Bartter
    syndrome type 2 (BS type 2) [MIM:241200]; also termed
    hyperprostanglandin E syndrome (HPS). BS type 2 is a
    phenotypically distinct variant of the Bartter syndromes
    characterized by polyhydramnios with preterm delivery, severe salt
    wasting, hyposthenuria, and hypercalciuria. BS type 2 is a life-
    threatening disorder in which both renal tubular hypokalemic
    alkalosis as well as profound systemic symptoms are manifest.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the inward rectifier-type potassium channel
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=KCNJ1".
 GO:0008076; C:voltage-gated potassium channel complex; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005242; F:inward rectifier potassium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007588; P:excretion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; ATP-binding; Bartter syndrome; Disease mutation;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Potassium;
Potassium transport; Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTWO
