AC   P63252; O15110; P48049;
Inward rectifier potassium channel 2 (Potassium channel, inwardly
rectifying subfamily J member 2) (Inward rectifier K(+) channel
Kir2.1) (Cardiac inward rectifier potassium channel) (IRK1).
"Molecular cloning and expression of a human heart inward rectifier
potassium channel.";
"Cloning and functional expression of a human gene, hIRK1, encoding
the heart inward rectifier K+-channel.";
"Inwardly rectifying whole cell potassium current in human blood
eosinophils.";
"Genetic and functional linkage of Kir5.1 and Kir2.1 channel
subunits.";
"Inward rectifier K+ channel from human heart and brain: cloning and
stable expression in a human cell line.";
"Mutations in Kir2.1 cause the developmental and episodic electrical
phenotypes of Andersen's syndrome.";
"KCNJ2 mutation results in Andersen syndrome with sex-specific cardiac
and skeletal muscle phenotypes.";
"Functional and clinical characterization of KCNJ2 mutations
associated with LQT7 (Andersen syndrome).";
"A novel form of short QT syndrome (SQT3) is caused by a mutation in
the KCNJ2 gene.";
-!- FUNCTION: Probably participates in establishing action potential
    waveform and excitability of neuronal and muscle tissues. Inward
    rectifier potassium channels are characterized by a greater
    tendency to allow potassium to flow into the cell rather than out
    of it. Their voltage dependence is regulated by the concentration
    of extracellular potassium; as external potassium is raised, the
    voltage range of the channel opening shifts to more positive
    voltages. The inward rectification is mainly due to the blockage
    of outward current by internal magnesium. Can be blocked by
    extracellular barium or cesium.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homomultimeric and heteromultimeric association with
    Kir2.3, resulting in an enhanced G-protein-induced current.
    Association, via its PDZ-recognition domain, with LIN7A, LIN7B,
    LIN7C, DLG1, CASK and APBA1 plays a key role in its localization
    and trafficking (By similarity).
-!- INTERACTION:
    P24588:AKAP5; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-703457, EBI-703640;
    P21333:FLNA; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-703457, EBI-350432;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Heart, brain, placenta, lung, skeletal muscle,
    and kidney. Diffusely distributed throughout the brain.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KCNJ2 are the cause of Andersen syndrome
    [MIM:170390]; also called Andersen cardiodysrhythmic periodic
    paralysis or long QT syndrome type 7 (LQT7). Andersen syndrome
    manifests itself as a clinical triad consisting of potassium-
    sensitive periodic paralysis, ventricular ectopy and dysmorphic
    features.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KCNJ2 are the cause of short QT syndrome type
    3 (SQT3) [MIM:609622]. Short QT syndromes are heart disorders
    characterized by idiopathic persistently and uniformly short QT
    interval on ECG in the absence of structural heart disease in
    affected individuals. They cause syncope and sudden death. SQT3
    has a unique ECG phenotype characterized by asymmetrical T waves.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the inward rectifier-type potassium channel
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=KCNJ2".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005242; F:inward rectifier potassium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Disease mutation; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Long QT syndrome;
Membrane; Potassium; Potassium transport; Short QT syndrome;
Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTWO
