AC   P60844; P48838; P75827; Q47159;
Aquaporin Z (Bacterial nodulin-like intrinsic protein).
"Molecular cloning and characterization of AqpZ, a water channel from
Escherichia coli.";
"Cloning and expression of a new member of aquaporin water channel
family of E. coli.";
"Isolation of a gene encoding nodulin-like intrinsic protein of
Escherichia coli.";
"A 718-kb DNA sequence of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome
corresponding to the 12.7-28.0 min region on the linkage map.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Visualization of AqpZ-mediated water permeability in Escherichia coli
by cryoelectron microscopy.";
"Functional reconstitution and characterization of AqpZ, the E. coli
water channel protein.";
"Highly selective water channel activity measured by voltage clamp:
Analysis of planar lipid bilayers reconstituted with purified AqpZ.";
"Structure of the water channel AqpZ from Escherichia coli revealed by
electron crystallography.";
"High resolution AFM topographs of the Escherichia coli water channel
aquaporin Z.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Architecture and selectivity in aquaporins: 2.5 A X-ray structure of
aquaporin Z.";
"The Escherichia coli aquaporin-Z water channel.";
-!- FUNCTION: Channel that permits osmotically driven movement of
    water in both directions. It is involved in the osmoregulation and
    in the maintenance of cell turgor during volume expansion in
    rapidly growing cells. It mediates rapid entry or exit of water in
    response to abrupt changes in osmolarity.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- INDUCTION: By extracellular hypoosmotic conditions, especially
    during the mid-logarithmic phase of growth.
-!- DOMAIN: Aquaporins contain two tandem repeats each containing
    three membrane-spanning domains and a pore-forming loop with the
    signature motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: It is a remarkably rigid tetramer that does not
    dissociate even when solubilized in SDS.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the MIP/aquaporin (TC 1.A.8) family.
 GO:0015250; F:water channel activity; IEA:HAMAP.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Repeat;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
