AC   P53386; O74680;
Aquaporin-1.
"Aquaporins in Saccharomyces. Genetic and functional distinctions
between laboratory and wild-type strains.";
"The nucleotide sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome XVI.";
"Creation of the YFLEX clone resource: cloning of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae ORFs in the Gateway recombinational cloning system.";
"Molecular and functional study of AQY1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae:
role of the C-terminal domain.";
"Polymorphism of Saccharomyces cerevisiae aquaporins.";
"Aquaporin expression correlates with freeze tolerance in baker's
yeast, and overexpression improves freeze tolerance in industrial
strains.";
"Topology models for 37 Saccharomyces cerevisiae membrane proteins
based on C-terminal reporter fusions and predictions.";
"Aquaporin-mediated improvement of freeze tolerance of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae is restricted to rapid freezing conditions.";
"The Saccharomyces cerevisiae aquaporin Aqy1 is involved in
sporulation.";
"A global topology map of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Water channel required to facilitate the transport of
    water across membranes. Involved in sporulation, freeze tolerance
    and osmotolerance. Is nonfunctional in most laboratory strains.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein. Cell membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed in spores.
-!- DOMAIN: Aquaporins contain two tandem repeats each containing
    three membrane-spanning domains and a pore-forming loop with the
    signature motif Asn-Pro-Ala (NPA).
-!- POLYMORPHISM: In strain S288c / AB972, a natural frameshift in
    position 294 changes the frame and leads to a non-functional
    protein.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the MIP/aquaporin (TC 1.A.8) family.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0015250; F:water channel activity; IGI:SGD.
 GO:0030437; P:sporulation (sensu Fungi); IMP:SGD.
 GO:0006833; P:water transport; IMP:SGD.
Complete proteome; Membrane; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
