AC   P22001;
Potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily A member 3 (Voltage-gated
potassium channel subunit Kv1.3) (HPCN3) (HGK5) (HuKIII) (HLK3).
"Sequence and functional expression in Xenopus oocytes of a human
insulinoma and islet potassium channel.";
"Characterization and functional expression of genomic DNA encoding
the human lymphocyte type n potassium channel.";
"Cloning, functional expression, and regulation of two K+ channels in
human T lymphocytes.";
"Confirmation of the assignment of the gene encoding Kv1.3, a voltage-
gated potassium channel (KCNA3) to the proximal short arm of human
chromosome 1.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates the voltage-dependent potassium ion
    permeability of excitable membranes. Assuming opened or closed
    conformations in response to the voltage difference across the
    membrane, the protein forms a potassium-selective channel through
    which potassium ions may pass in accordance with their
    electrochemical gradient.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of potassium channel proteins. Binds PDZ
    domains of DLG1, DLG2 and DLG4 (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminus may be important in determining the rate of
    inactivation of the channel while the tail may play a role in
    modulation of channel activity and/or targeting of the channel to
    specific subcellular compartments.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids at
    every third position.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel family. A (Shaker)
    subfamily.
 GO:0008076; C:voltage-gated potassium channel complex; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005251; F:delayed rectifier potassium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005244; F:voltage-gated ion channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Lipoprotein; Membrane;
Palmitate; Phosphorylation; Potassium; Potassium channel;
Potassium transport; Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
