AC   P17970; O76805; Q9I7T9; Q9I7U0;
Potassium voltage-gated channel protein Shab.
"A family of putative potassium channel genes in Drosophila.";
"K+ current diversity is produced by an extended gene family conserved
in Drosophila and mouse.";
"Shal, Shab, and Shaw: three genes encoding potassium channels in
Drosophila.";
"Mutational analysis of the Shab-encoded delayed rectifier K(+)
channels in Drosophila.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
-!- FUNCTION: Mediates the voltage-dependent potassium ion
    permeability of excitable membranes. Assuming opened or closed
    conformations in response to the voltage difference across the
    membrane, the protein forms a potassium-selective channel through
    which potassium ions may pass in accordance with their
    electrochemical gradient.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of potassium channel proteins (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=B;
      IsoId=P17970-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=A;
      IsoId=P17970-2; Sequence=VSP_000960;
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed in late embryos and pupae.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminus may be important in determining the rate of
    inactivation of the channel while the tail may play a role in
    modulation of channel activity and/or targeting of the channel to
    specific subcellular compartments.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and
    is characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids at
    every third position.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel family. B (Shab)
    subfamily.
 GO:0008076; C:voltage-gated potassium channel complex; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0005249; F:voltage-gated potassium channel activity; TAS:FlyBase.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:FlyBase.
Alternative splicing; Complete proteome; Glycoprotein; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Potassium;
Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Transmembrane; Transport;
Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
