AC   P15383;
Potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily E member 1 (IKs producing
slow voltage-gated potassium channel subunit beta Mink) (Minimal
potassium channel) (Delayed rectifier potassium channel subunit IsK).
"Cloning of a membrane protein that induces a slow voltage-gated
potassium current.";
"Cloning and expression of the delayed-rectifier IsK channel from
neonatal rat heart and diethylstilbestrol-primed rat uterus.";
"Estrogen induction of a small, putative K+ channel mRNA in rat
uterus.";
"Characterization of gene organization and generation of heterogeneous
mRNA species of rat ISK protein.";
"An amino acid mutation in a potassium channel that prevents
inhibition by protein kinase C.";
"Subunit composition of minK potassium channels.";
-!- FUNCTION: Ancillary protein that assembles as a beta subunit with
    a voltage-gated potassium channel complex of pore-forming alpha
    subunits. Modulates the gating kinetics and enhances stability of
    the channel complex. Assembled with KCNQ1/KVLQT1 is proposed to
    form the slowly activating delayed rectifier cardiac potassium
    (IKs) channel. The outward current reaches its steady state only
    after 50 seconds. Assembled with KCNH2/HERG may modulate the
    rapidly activating component of the delayed rectifying potassium
    current in heart (IKr) (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: Associates with KCNQ1/KVLQT1 and KCNH2/HERG (By
    similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Restrictively localized in the apical membrane
    portion of epithelial cells.
-!- INDUCTION: By estrogen.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation inhibits the potassium current.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mutagenesis experiments were carried out by
    expressing in Xenopus oocytes MinK mutant either individually
    (homomultimers) or in combination with wild-type MinK
    (heteromultimers) in a 1:1 ratio.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel KCNE family.
 GO:0005251; F:delayed rectifier potassium channel activity; IMP:RGD.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Potassium; Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Transmembrane;
Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMONE
