AC   O15554;
Intermediate conductance calcium-activated potassium channel protein 4
(SK4) (KCa4) (IK1) (IKCa1) (Putative Gardos channel).
"hSK4, a member of a novel subfamily of calcium-activated potassium
channels.";
"A human intermediate conductance calcium-activated potassium
channel.";
"A novel gene, hKCa4, encodes the calcium-activated potassium channel
in human T lymphocytes.";
"Human calcium-activated potassium channel gene KCNN4 maps to
chromosome 19q13.2 in the region deleted in diamond-blackfan anemia.";
"Up-regulation of the IKCa1 potassium channel during T-cell
activation. Molecular mechanism and functional consequences.";
"Characterization of calcium-activated potassium channels in human
myometrium.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"hIK1 (putative Gardos channel) PCR product amplified from the K562
human erythroleukemic cell line.";
"Calmodulin mediates calcium-dependent activation of the intermediate
conductance KCa channel, IKCa1.";
"Delineation of the clotrimazole/TRAM-34 binding site on the
intermediate conductance calcium-activated potassium channel, IKCa1.";
-!- FUNCTION: Forms a voltage-independent potassium channel that is
    activated by intracellular calcium. Activation is followed by
    membrane hyperpolarization which promotes calcium influx. The
    channel is blocked by clotrimazole and charybdotoxin but is
    insensitive to apamin.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heterotetramer of potassium channel proteins (Probable).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed in non-excitable tissues.
-!- INDUCTION: Up-regulated by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and
    phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in T-cells.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel KCNN family.
 GO:0008076; C:voltage-gated potassium channel complex; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015269; F:calcium-activated potassium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006952; P:defense response; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Calmodulin-binding; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSEVEN
