AC   O43525;
Potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily KQT member 3 (Voltage-gated
potassium channel subunit Kv7.3) (Potassium channel subunit alpha
KvLQT3) (KQT-like 3).
"Moderate loss of function of cyclic-AMP-modulated KCNQ2/KCNQ3 K+
channels causes epilepsy.";
"A pore mutation in a novel KQT-like potassium channel gene in an
idiopathic epilepsy family.";
"Functional expression of two KvLQT1-related potassium channels
responsible for an inherited idiopathic epilepsy.";
"Two types of K(+) channel subunit, Erg1 and KCNQ2/3, contribute to
the M-like current in a mammalian neuronal cell.";
"M-type KCNQ2-KCNQ3 potassium channels are modulated by the KCNE2
subunit.";
"Surface expression and single channel properties of KCNQ2/KCNQ3, M-
type K+ channels involved in epilepsy.";
"Reconstitution of muscarinic modulation of the KCNQ2/KCNQ3 K(+)
channels that underlie the neuronal M current.";
"Inhibition of KCNQ1-4 potassium channels expressed in mammalian cells
via M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.";
"Modulation of KCNQ2/3 potassium channels by the novel anticonvulsant
retigabine.";
"Retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant, enhances activation of KCNQ2/Q3
potassium channels.";
"The novel anticonvulsant retigabine activates M-currents in Chinese
hamster ovary-cells tranfected with human KCNQ2/3 subunits.";
"Characterization of KCNQ5/Q3 potassium channels expressed in
mammalian cells.";
"A novel mutation of KCNQ3 (c.925T-->C) in a Japanese family with
benign familial neonatal convulsions.";
"KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 potassium channel genes in benign familial neonatal
convulsions: expansion of the functional and mutation spectrum.";
-!- FUNCTION: Probably important in the regulation of neuronal
    excitability. Associates with KCNQ2 or KCNQ5 to form a potassium
    channel with essentially identical properties to the channel
    underlying the native M-current, a slowly activating and
    deactivating potassium conductance which plays a critical role in
    determining the subthreshold electrical excitability of neurons as
    well as the responsiveness to synaptic inputs.
-!- SUBUNIT: Heteromultimer with KCNQ2 or KCNQ5. May associate with
    KCNE2.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Predominantly expressed in brain.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids at
    every third position (By similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KCNQ3 are the cause of benign familial
    neonatal convulsions type 2 (BFNC2) [MIM:121201]; also known as
    epilepsy, benign neonatal type 2 (EBN2). BFNC2 is an autosomal
    dominant form of epilepsy in the newborn that clears spontaneously
    after a few weeks and is followed by normal psychomotor
    development.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mutagenesis experiments were carried out in Xenopus
    oocytes by coexpression of either KCNQ3(mut) and KCNQ2 at the
    ratio of 1:1, or of KCNQ3(mut), KCNQ3(wt) and KCNQ2 at the ratio
    of 1:1:2, to mimic the situation in a heterozygous patient with
    BFNC2 disease.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel family. KQT
    subfamily.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=KCNQ3".
 GO:0008076; C:voltage-gated potassium channel complex; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005249; F:voltage-gated potassium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007268; P:synaptic transmission; TAS:ProtInc.
Disease mutation; Epilepsy; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane;
Potassium; Potassium channel; Potassium transport; Transmembrane;
Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
