AC   P56696; O96025;
Potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily KQT member 4 (Voltage-gated
potassium channel subunit Kv7.4) (Potassium channel subunit alpha
KvLQT4) (KQT-like 4).
"KCNQ4, a novel potassium channel expressed in sensory outer hair
cells, is mutated in dominant deafness.";
"Inhibition of KCNQ1-4 potassium channels expressed in mammalian cells
via M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.";
"KCNQ4 channels expressed in mammalian cells: functional
characteristics and pharmacology.";
"Mutations in the KCNQ4 gene are responsible for autosomal dominant
deafness in four DFNA2 families.";
"Novel mutation in the KCNQ4 gene in a large kindred with dominant
progressive hearing loss.";
"Mutations in the KCNQ4 K+ channel gene, responsible for autosomal
dominant hearing loss, cluster in the channel pore region.";
-!- FUNCTION: Probably important in the regulation of neuronal
    excitability. May underlie a potassium current involved in
    regulating the excitability of sensory cells of the cochlea. KCNQ4
    channels are blocked by linopirdin, XE991 and bepridil, whereas
    clofilium is without significant effect. Muscarinic agonist
    oxotremorine-M strongly suppress KCNQ4 current in CHO cells in
    which cloned KCNQ4 channels were coexpressed with M1 muscarinnic
    receptors.
-!- SUBUNIT: May form heteromultimers with KCNQ3.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; basal cell membrane; multi-
    pass membrane protein. Note=Situated at the basal membrane of
    cochlear outer hair cells (By similarity).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
      Comment=Additional isoforms seem to exist;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=P56696-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=P56696-2; Sequence=VSP_001013;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in the outer, but not the inner,
    sensory hair cells of the cochlea. Slightly expressed in heart,
    brain and skeletal muscle.
-!- DOMAIN: The segment S4 is probably the voltage-sensor and is
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids at
    every third position (By similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in KCNQ4 are a cause of nonsyndromic
    sensorineural deafness type 2 (DFNA2) [MIM:600101]. DFNA2 is an
    autosomal dominant form of progressive hearing loss.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mutagenesis experiments were carried out by
    expressing in Xenopus oocytes KCNQ4 mutants either individually
    (homomultimers) or in combination with wild-type KCNQ4 (mut/wt
    homomultimers) in a ratio of 1:1, to mimic the situation in a
    heterozygous DFNA2 patient.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the potassium channel family. KQT
    subfamily.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=Hereditary hearing loss homepage;
    NOTE=Gene page; URL="http://webhost.ua.ac.be/hhh/".
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=KCNQ4".
 GO:0005267; F:potassium channel activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006813; P:potassium ion transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007605; P:sensory perception of sound; TAS:ProtInc.
Alternative splicing; Deafness; Disease mutation; Ion transport;
Ionic channel; Membrane; Potassium; Potassium channel;
Potassium transport; Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMSIX
