AC   P02943; Q2M6R8;
Maltoporin precursor (Maltose-inducible porin) (Lambda receptor
protein).
"Gene sequence of the lambda receptor, an outer membrane protein of E.
coli K12.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome. IV. DNA sequence of the
region from 89.2 to 92.8 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Sequence determinants in the lamB gene of Escherichia coli
influencing the binding and pore selectivity of maltoporin.";
"DNA sequence encoding the signal peptide of the lambda receptor in E.
coli K 12.";
"DNA sequence encoding the NH2-terminal peptide involved in transport
of lambda receptor, an Escherichia coli secretory protein.";
"Genetic analysis of sequences in maltoporin that contribute to
binding domains and pore structure.";
"Role of a disulfide bond in the thermal stability of the LamB protein
trimer in Escherichia coli outer membrane.";
"Permissive sites and topology of an outer membrane protein with a
reporter epitope.";
"A model of maltodextrin transport through the sugar-specific porin,
LamB, based on deletion analysis.";
"Sucrose transport through maltoporin mutants of Escherichia coli.";
"Protein complexes of the Escherichia coli cell envelope.";
"Structural basis for sugar translocation through maltoporin channels
at 3.1-A resolution.";
"Crystal structures of various maltooligosaccharides bound to
maltoporin reveal a specific sugar translocation pathway.";
"Channel specificity: structural basis for sugar discrimination and
differential flux rates in maltoporin.";
-!- FUNCTION: Involved in the transport of maltose and maltodextrins,
    indispensable for translocation of dextrins containing more than
    three glucosyl moieties. A hydrophobic path ("greasy slide") of
    aromatic residues serves to guide and select the sugars for
    transport through the channel. Also acts as a receptor for several
    bacteriophages including lambda.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotrimer formed of three 18-stranded antiparallel beta-
    barrels, containing three independent channels.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell outer membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- INDUCTION: By maltose.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the porin lamB family.
 GO:0015288; F:porin activity; IEA:HAMAP.
 GO:0015768; P:maltose transport; IEA:HAMAP.
3D-structure; Complete proteome; Ion transport; Membrane;
Outer membrane; Phage recognition; Porin; Signal; Sugar transport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMEIGHTEEN
