AC   P13473; Q16641; Q96J30; Q99534;
Lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 2 precursor (LAMP-2) (CD107b
antigen).
"Cloning of cDNAs encoding human lysosomal membrane glycoproteins, h-
lamp-1 and h-lamp-2. Comparison of their deduced amino acid
sequences.";
"Complete cDNA sequence of human lysosome-associated membrane protein-
2.";
"An alternatively spliced form of the human lysosome-associated
membrane protein-2 gene is expressed in a tissue-specific manner.";
"The genes of major lysosomal membrane glycoproteins, lamp-1 and lamp-
2. 5'-flanking sequence of lamp-2 gene and comparison of exon
organization in two genes.";
"The DNA sequence of the human X chromosome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Purification and characterization of human lysosomal membrane
glycoproteins.";
"Signal peptide prediction based on analysis of experimentally
verified cleavage sites.";
"The polylactosaminoglycans of human lysosomal membrane glycoproteins
lamp-1 and lamp-2. Localization on the peptide backbones.";
"Assignment of O-glycan attachment sites to the hinge-like regions of
human lysosomal membrane glycoproteins lamp-1 and lamp-2.";
"Identification and quantification of N-linked glycoproteins using
hydrazide chemistry, stable isotope labeling and mass spectrometry.";
"Human plasma N-glycoproteome analysis by immunoaffinity subtraction,
hydrazide chemistry, and mass spectrometry.";
"Glycogen storage diseases presenting as hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy.";
"Asymptomatic hyperCKemia in a case of Danon disease due to a missense
mutation in Lamp-2 gene.";
-!- FUNCTION: Implicated in tumor cell metastasis. May function in
    protection of the lysosomal membrane from autodigestion,
    maintenance of the acidic environment of the lysosome, adhesion
    when expressed on the cell surface (plasma membrane), and inter-
    and intracellular signal transduction.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein. Endosome; endosomal membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein. Lysosome; lysosomal membrane; single-pass type I membrane
    protein. Note=This protein shuttles between lysosomes, endosomes,
    and the plasma membrane.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=LAMP-2A;
      IsoId=P13473-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=LAMP-2B;
      IsoId=P13473-2; Sequence=VSP_003044;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Isoform LAMP-2A is highly expressed in
    placenta, lung and liver, less in kidney and pancreas, low in
    brain and skeletal muscle. Isoform LAMP-2B is highly expressed in
    skeletal muscle, less in brain, placenta, lung, kidney and
    pancreas, very low in liver.
-!- PTM: O- and N-glycosylated; some of the 16 N-linked glycans are
    polylactosaminoglycans.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in LAMP2 are the cause of Danon disease
    [MIM:300257]; also known as glycogen storage disease type IIb
    (GSD2B). It is characterized by the clinical triad of
    cardiomyopathy, vacuolar myopathy and mental retardation. It is
    often linked with an accumulation of glycogen in muscle and
    lysosomes.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the LAMP family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=LAMP2".
 GO:0005770; C:late endosome; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005765; C:lysosomal membrane; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0031088; C:platelet dense granule membrane; IDA:MGI.
Alternative splicing; Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation;
Glycoprotein; Lysosome; Membrane; Polymorphism; Signal; Transmembrane.
TMONE
