AC   P13068;
Lantibiotic nisin-A precursor.
"Structure, expression, and evolution of a gene encoding the precursor
of nisin, a small protein antibiotic.";
"Characterization of the nisin gene as part of a polycistronic operon
in the chromosome of Lactococcus lactis ATCC 11454.";
"Nisin, a peptide antibiotic: cloning and sequencing of the nisA gene
and posttranslational processing of its peptide product.";
"Biosynthesis of the lantibiotic nisin: genomic organization and
membrane localization of the NisB protein.";
"Characterization of the nisin gene cluster nisABTCIPR of Lactococcus
lactis. Requirement of expression of the nisA and nisI genes for
development of immunity.";
"The structure of nisin.";
"NMR studies of lantibiotics. The structure of nisin in aqueous
solution.";
"Solution structures of nisin A and its two major degradation products
determined by NMR.";
"NMR and circular dichroism studies of the lantibiotic nisin in non-
aqueous environments.";
"15N- and 13C-labeled media from Anabaena sp. for universal isotopic
labeling of bacteriocins: NMR resonance assignments of leucocin A from
Leuconostoc gelidum and nisin A from Lactococcus lactis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Lanthionine-containing peptide antibiotic (lantibiotic)
    active on Gram-positive bacteria. The bactericidal activity of
    lantibiotics is based on depolarization of energized bacterial
    cytoplasmic membranes, initiated by the formation of aqueous
    transmembrane pores.
-!- PTM: Maturation of lantibiotics involves the enzymic conversion of
    Thr, and Ser into dehydrated AA and the formation of thioether
    bonds with cysteine. This is followed by membrane translocation
    and cleavage of the modified precursor.
-!- BIOTECHNOLOGY: Used as a food preservative.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The nisA gene is found both on chromosomal and
    plasmid DNA. The sequences reported are absolutely identical.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the type A lantibiotic family.
Antibiotic; Antimicrobial; Bacteriocin; Direct protein sequencing;
Lantibiotic; Plasmid; Thioether bond.
TMZERO
