AC   P55117; P55116; Q51865; Q51866; Q51867; Q51868; Q798V3; Q798V4;
AC   Q9EUD4; Q9EV22;
Leukotoxin (Lkt).
"Molecular analysis of the leukotoxin determinants from Pasteurella
haemolytica serotypes 1 to 16.";
"Characterization of epitopes involved in the neutralization of
Pasteurella haemolytica serotype A1 leukotoxin.";
"Sequence diversity and molecular evolution of the leukotoxin (lktA)
gene in bovine and ovine strains of Mannheimia (Pasteurella)
haemolytica.";
"DNA sequence of the carboxy terminal end of leukotoxin A from the T10
serotype of Pasteurella haemolytica.";
"DNA sequence of the carboxy terminal end of leukotoxin A from the T3
serotype of Pasteurella haemolytica.";
"DNA sequence of the carboxy terminal end of leukotoxin A from the T4
serotype of Pasteurella haemolytica.";
"DNA sequence of the carboxy terminal end of leukotoxin A from the T15
serotype of Pasteurella haemolytica.";
-!- FUNCTION: Pasteurella leukotoxins are exotoxins that attack host
    leukocytes and especially polymorphonuclear cells, by causing cell
    rupture. The leukotoxin binds to the host LFA-1 integrin and
    induces a signaling cascade leading to many biological effects,
    including tyrosine phosphorylation of the CD18 tail, elevation of
    the intracellular Ca(2+) and lysis of the host cell (By
    similarity). This leukotoxin is a major contributor to the
    pathogenesis of lung injury in ovine pneumonic pasteurellosis. It
    has also weak hemolytic activity.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The transmembrane domains are believed to be involved in
    pore formation in target cells (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The Gly-rich region is probably involved in calcium
    binding, which is required for target cell-binding and cytolytic
    activity (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The C-terminal domain contains an export signal that is
    recognized by the ABC transporter complex lktBD (By similarity).
-!- PTM: Acylated by lktC. The toxin only becomes active when modified
    (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: The lktCABD operon has a complex mosaic structure
    that has been derived by extensive inter- and intraspecies
    horizontal DNA transfer and intragenic recombination events.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the RTX prokaryotic toxin (TC 1.C.11)
    family.
Calcium; Cytolysis; Hemolysis; Lipoprotein; Membrane; Repeat; Toxin;
Transmembrane; Virulence.
TMFOUR
