AC   P35938; Q67158; Q67159;
Matrix protein 2 (Proton channel protein M2).
"Primary structure of fragment 7 of the influenza virus
A/USSR/90/77(H1N1) RNA.";
"Assembly and budding of influenza virus.";
"Proton conduction through the M2 protein of the influenza A virus; a
quantitative, mechanistic analysis of experimental data.";
"Computational studies of proton transport through the M2 channel.";
"The closed state of a H+ channel helical bundle combining precise
orientational and distance restraints from solid state NMR.";
-!- FUNCTION: Forms a highly low-pH gated proton-selective channel.
    When the environmental pH is lower than a threshold, the M2
    channel is activated and selectively transports protons across the
    membrane from the extracellular side to the cytoplasmic side.
    Crucial for the uncoating process. When the virion is internalized
    into the endosome, the channel acidifies the virion's interior,
    promoting the dissociation of matrix protein 1 (M1) from the
    ribonucleoprotein (RNP) thus allowing the transport of the RNP
    from the virion into the cell's nucleus. Also plays a role in
    viral proteins secretory pathway. Elevates the intravesicular pH
    of normally acidic compartments, such as trans-Golgi network,
    preventing newly formed hemagglutinin from premature switching to
    the fusion-active conformation (By similarity).
-!- ENZYME REGULATION: The M2 protein from most influenza A strains is
    inhibited by amantadine and rimantadine, resulting in viral
    uncoating incapacity. Emergence of amantadine-resistant variants
    is usually rapid.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer; composed of two disulfide-linked dimers
    held together by noncovalent interactions (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Virion; virion membrane (By similarity).
    Cell membrane; apical cell membrane; single-pass type III membrane
    protein (By similarity). Note=Abundantly expressed at the apical
    plasma membrane in infected polarized epithelial cells, in close
    proximity to budding and assembled virions. Minor component of
    virions (only 16-20 molecules/virion) (By similarity).
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
      Comment=Only the first 9 residues are shared by the 2 isoforms;
    Name=M2;
      IsoId=P35938-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=M1;
      IsoId=P35937-1; Sequence=External;
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: When the channel is activated, one or more
    imidazole moities of His-37 probably become bi-protonated.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the influenza viruses matrix protein M2
    family.
3D-structure; Alternative splicing; Glycoprotein;
Hydrogen ion transport; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Lipoprotein;
Membrane; Palmitate; Phosphorylation; Signal-anchor; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMONE
