AC   P02916; Q2M6S1;
Maltose transport system permease protein malF.
"The nucleotide sequence of the gene for malF protein, an inner
membrane component of the maltose transport system of Escherichia
coli. Repeated DNA sequences are found in the malE-malF intercistronic
region.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome. IV. DNA sequence of the
region from 89.2 to 92.8 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"Sequence of gene malG in E. coli K12: homologies between integral
membrane components from binding protein-dependent transport
systems.";
"The distribution of positively charged residues in bacterial inner
membrane proteins correlates with the trans-membrane topology.";
"Genetic analysis of membrane protein topology by a sandwich gene
fusion approach.";
"Decoding signals for membrane protein assembly using alkaline
phosphatase fusions.";
"Subunit interactions in ABC transporters: a conserved sequence in
hydrophobic membrane proteins of periplasmic permeases defines an
important site of interaction with the ATPase subunits.";
"Unliganded maltose-binding protein triggers lactose transport in an
Escherichia coli mutant with an alteration in the maltose transport
system.";
"Characterization of transmembrane domains 6, 7, and 8 of MalF by
mutational analysis.";
"ATP modulates subunit-subunit interactions in an ATP-binding cassette
transporter (MalFGK2) determined by site-directed chemical cross-
linking.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
"Maltose/maltodextrin system of Escherichia coli: transport,
metabolism, and regulation.";
-!- FUNCTION: Part of the binding-protein-dependent transport system
    for maltose; probably responsible for the translocation of the
    substrate across the membrane.
-!- SUBUNIT: The complex is composed of two ATP-binding proteins
    (malK), two transmembrane proteins (malG and malF) and a solute-
    binding protein (malE).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein; periplasmic side. Note=A substantial portion of it
    protrudes into the periplasmic space.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: When malF EAA loop mutations are made concomitantly
    with malG EAA loop mutations, a complete loss of transport and
    complex formation is observed, except for the Gly-407. This
    suggests that these interaction malF-malG may be important for the
    proper assembly and also for the correct function of the
    transporter.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the binding-protein-dependent transport
    system permease family. MalFG subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transmembrane type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Sugar transport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMEIGHT
