AC   P68183; P07622; Q2M6S2;
Maltose transport system permease protein malG.
"Sequence of gene malG in E. coli K12: homologies between integral
membrane components from binding protein-dependent transport
systems.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome. IV. DNA sequence of the
region from 89.2 to 92.8 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"The cloning and DNA sequence of the gene xylE for xylose-proton
symport in Escherichia coli K12.";
"3' end of the malEFG operon in E.coli: localization of the
transcription termination site.";
"Cellular localization of the MalG protein from the maltose transport
system in Escherichia coli K12.";
"Membrane topology of MalG, an inner membrane protein from the maltose
transport system of Escherichia coli.";
"Sequence-function relationships in MalG, an inner membrane protein
from the maltose transport system in Escherichia coli.";
"Subunit interactions in ABC transporters: a conserved sequence in
hydrophobic membrane proteins of periplasmic permeases defines an
important site of interaction with the ATPase subunits.";
"ATP modulates subunit-subunit interactions in an ATP-binding cassette
transporter (MalFGK2) determined by site-directed chemical cross-
linking.";
"Maltose/maltodextrin system of Escherichia coli: transport,
metabolism, and regulation.";
"Global topology analysis of the Escherichia coli inner membrane
proteome.";
-!- FUNCTION: Part of the binding-protein-dependent transport system
    for maltose; probably responsible for the translocation of the
    substrate across the membrane.
-!- SUBUNIT: The complex is composed of two ATP-binding proteins
    (malK), two transmembrane proteins (malG and malF) and a solute-
    binding protein (malE).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; multi-pass membrane
    protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: When malF EAA loop mutations are made concomitantly
    with malG EAA loop mutations, a complete loss of transport and
    complex formation is observed. This suggests that the malF-malG
    interaction may be important for the proper assembly and also for
    the correct function of the transporter.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the binding-protein-dependent transport
    system permease family. MalFG subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transmembrane type-1 domain.
Complete proteome; Inner membrane; Membrane; Sugar transport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
