AC   P68187; P02914; Q2M6R9; Q47348;
Maltose/maltodextrin import ATP-binding protein malK (EC 3.6.3.19).
"Sequence of the malK gene in E.coli K12.";
"Comparison of sequences from the malB regions of Salmonella
typhimurium and Enterobacter aerogenes with Escherichia coli K12: a
potential new regulatory site in the interoperonic region.";
"Analysis of the Escherichia coli genome. IV. DNA sequence of the
region from 89.2 to 92.8 minutes.";
"The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.";
"Highly accurate genome sequences of Escherichia coli K-12 strains
MG1655 and W3110.";
"A DNA sequence containing the control regions of the malEFG and malK-
lamB operons in Escherichia coli K12.";
"Overproduction, solubilization, and reconstitution of the maltose
transport system from Escherichia coli.";
"Regulation of the maltose transport system of Escherichia coli by the
glucose-specific enzyme III of the phosphoenolpyruvate-sugar
phosphotransferase system. Characterization of inducer exclusion-
resistant mutants and reconstitution of inducer exclusion in
proteoliposomes.";
"Purification and characterization of the membrane-associated
components of the maltose transport system from Escherichia coli.";
"The activities of the Escherichia coli MalK protein in maltose
transport, regulation, and inducer exclusion can be separated by
mutations.";
"The ATP-binding cassette subunit of the maltose transporter MalK
antagonizes MalT, the activator of the Escherichia coli mal regulon.";
"Subunit interactions in ABC transporters: a conserved sequence in
hydrophobic membrane proteins of periplasmic permeases defines an
important site of interaction with the ATPase subunits.";
"ATP modulates subunit-subunit interactions in an ATP-binding cassette
transporter (MalFGK2) determined by site-directed chemical cross-
linking.";
"Structural model of MalK, the ABC subunit of the maltose transporter
of Escherichia coli: implications for mal gene regulation, inducer
exclusion, and subunit assembly.";
"Protein complexes of the Escherichia coli cell envelope.";
"Maltose/maltodextrin system of Escherichia coli: transport,
metabolism, and regulation.";
"Import of solutes by ABC transporters - The maltose and other
systems.";
"A tweezers-like motion of the ATP-binding cassette dimer in an ABC
transport cycle.";
-!- FUNCTION: Part of the ABC transporter complex malEFGK involved in
    maltose/maltodextrin import. Responsible for energy coupling to
    the transport system.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O + maltose(Out) = ADP + phosphate +
    maltose(In).
-!- SUBUNIT: The complex is composed of two ATP-binding proteins
    (malK), two transmembrane proteins (malG and malF) and a solute-
    binding protein (malE).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell inner membrane; peripheral membrane
    protein.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Target for inducer exclusion, mediated by the
    unphosphorylated enzyme III of the phosphotransferase system for
    glucose and resulting in the inhibition of maltose transport.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Acts as a repressor of mal genes. In absence of
    maltose, the C-terminus of malK interacts with malT, then malT
    becomes inactive and the mal genes are not activated. In presence
    of maltose, malK is tightly associated with the malFG complex and
    has no affinity for malT.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family.
    Maltooligosaccharide importer (TC 3.A.1.1.1) subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 ABC transporter domain.
 GO:0015423; F:maltose-transporting ATPase activity; IEA:EC.
3D-structure; ATP-binding; Complete proteome; Hydrolase;
Inner membrane; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Sugar transport;
Transport.
TMZERO
