AC   P36051;
GPI ethanolamine phosphate transferase 1 (EC 2.-.-.-) (Morphogenesis
checkpoint-dependent protein 4) (Supersecretion of u-PA protein 21).
"DNA sequencing of a 36.2 kb fragment located between the FAS1 and LAP
loci of chromosome XI of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Complete DNA sequence of yeast chromosome XI.";
"MCD4 encodes a conserved endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein
essential for glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis in
yeast.";
"A novel vacuolar protein encoded by SSU21 / MCD4 is involved in cell
wall integrity in yeast.";
"A genetic screen for ethanolamine auxotrophs in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae identifies a novel mutation in Mcd4p, a protein implicated
in glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis.";
"Correct GPI-anchor synthesis is required for the incorporation of
endoglucanase/glucanosyltransferase Bgl2p into the Saccharomyces
cerevisiae cell wall.";
"ATP uptake in the Golgi and extracellular release require Mcd4
protein and the vacuolar H+-ATPase.";
"Global analysis of protein localization in budding yeast.";
"Deletion of MCD 4 involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)
anchor synthesis leads to an increase in beta-1,6-glucan level and a
decrease in GPI-anchored protein and mannan levels in the cell wall of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.";
"Ethanolaminephosphate side chain added to
glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor by mcd4p is required for
ceramide remodeling and forward transport of GPI proteins from
endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi.";
-!- FUNCTION: Ethanolamine phosphate transferase involved in
    glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor biosynthesis. Transfers
    ethanolamine phosphate to the first alpha-1,4-linked mannose of
    the glycosylphosphatidylinositol precursor of GPI-anchor.
    Ethanolamine phosphate on the alpha-1,4-linked mannose is
    essential for further mannosylation by GPI10 and is necessary for
    an efficient recognition of GPI lipids and GPI proteins by the GPI
    transamidase, for the efficient transport of GPI anchored proteins
    from endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi and for the physiological
    incorporation of ceramides into GPI anchors by lipid remodeling.
    Also involved in non-mitochondrial ATP movements across membrane
    and participates in Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum function, Also
    required for the incorporation of BGL2 into the cell wall.
-!- PATHWAY: Glycolipid biosynthesis; glycosylphosphatidylinositol-
    anchor biosynthesis.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endoplasmic reticulum; endoplasmic reticulum
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein. Golgi apparatus; Golgi
    apparatus membrane; multi-pass membrane protein. Vacuole; vacuolar
    membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Target of the inhibitor of GPI biosynthesis
    YW3548/BE49385A.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the PIGG/PIGN/PIGO family. PIGN subfamily.
 GO:0009277; C:cell wall (sensu Fungi); IDA:SGD.
 GO:0005783; C:endoplasmic reticulum; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0000324; C:vacuole (sensu Fungi); IDA:SGD.
 GO:0051377; F:mannose-ethanolamine phosphotransferase act...; IMP:SGD.
 GO:0015867; P:ATP transport; IDA:SGD.
 GO:0006506; P:GPI anchor biosynthesis; IDA:SGD.
Cell wall; Complete proteome; Endoplasmic reticulum; Glycoprotein;
Golgi apparatus; GPI-anchor biosynthesis; Membrane; Transferase;
Transmembrane; Vacuole.
TMFIFTEEN
