AC   Q9GZU1; Q7Z4F7; Q9H292; Q9H4B3; Q9H4B5;
Mucolipin-1 (Mucolipidin) (MG-2).
"Cloning of the gene encoding a novel integral membrane protein,
mucolipidin, and identification of the two major founder mutations
causing mucolipidosis type IV.";
"Mucolipidosis type IV is caused by mutations in a gene encoding a
novel transient receptor potential channel.";
"Identification of the gene causing mucolipidosis type IV.";
"Complete sequencing and characterization of 21,243 full-length human
cDNAs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Identification and characterization of the single channel function of
human mucolipin-1 implicated in mucolipidosis type IV, a disorder
affecting the lysosomal pathway.";
"Overexpression of wild-type and mutant mucolipin proteins in
mammalian cells: effects on the late endocytic compartment
organization.";
"Molecular pathophysiology of mucolipidosis type IV: pH dysregulation
of the mucolipin-1 cation channel.";
"Mucolipidosis type IV: novel MCOLN1 mutations in Jewish and non-
Jewish patients and the frequency of the disease in the Ashkenazi
Jewish population.";
"The neurogenetics of mucolipidosis type IV.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cationic channel probably playing a role in the
    endocytic pathway and in the control of membrane trafficking of
    proteins and lipids. Could play a major role in Ca(2+) transport
    regulating lysosomal exocytosis.
-!- SUBUNIT: Forms multimeric complexes.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
    Endosome; late endosome; late endosomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein. Lysosome; lysosomal membrane; multi-pass
    membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q9GZU1-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q9GZU1-2; Sequence=VSP_010819, VSP_010820;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Widely expressed in adult and fetal tissues.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in MCOLN1 are the cause of mucolipidosis type IV
    (MLIV) [MIM:252650]; also known as sialolipidosis. MLIV is an
    autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by
    severe psychomotor retardation and ophthalmologic abnormalities,
    including corneal opacity, retinal degeneration and strabismus.
    Storage bodies of lipids and water-soluble substances are seen by
    electron microscopy in almost every cell type of the patients.
    Most patients are unable to speak or walk independently and reach
    a maximal developmental level of 1-2 years. All patients have
    constitutive achlorhydia associated with a secondary elevation of
    serum gastrin levels. MLIV may be due to a defect in sorting
    and/or transport along the late endocytic pathway. MLIV is found
    at relatively high frequency among Ashkenazi Jews.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Channel function is transiently modulated by
    changes in Ca(2+), and inhibited by a reduction of pH; pH changes
    modify the aggregation state of unitary channels.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the transient receptor family. Polycystin
    subfamily.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=MCOLN1".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005261; F:cation channel activity; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0006812; P:cation transport; NAS:UniProtKB.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Calcium transport; Disease mutation;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Lysosome; Membrane; Mucolipidosis;
Phosphorylation; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
