AC   P21439; Q14813;
Multidrug resistance protein 3 (EC 3.6.3.44) (ATP-binding cassette
sub-family B member 4) (P-glycoprotein 3).
"Sequence of mdr3 cDNA encoding a human P-glycoprotein.";
"Characterization of the promoter region of the human MDR3 P-
glycoprotein gene.";
"The human mdr3 gene encodes a novel P-glycoprotein homologue and
gives rise to alternatively spliced mRNAs in liver.";
"Structure of the human MDR3 gene and physical mapping of the human
MDR locus.";
"Heterozygous MDR3 missense mutation associated with intrahepatic
cholestasis of pregnancy: evidence for a defect in protein
trafficking.";
"MDR3 gene defect in adults with symptomatic intrahepatic and
gallbladder cholesterol cholelithiasis.";
-!- FUNCTION: Energy-dependent efflux pump responsible for decreased
    drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells. Human MDR3 is not
    capable of conferring drug resistance. Mediates the translocation
    of phosphatidylcholine across the canalicular membrane of the
    hepatocyte.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O + xenobiotic(In) = ADP + phosphate
    + xenobiotic(Out).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCB4 are the cause of progressive familial
    intrahepatic cholestasis type III (PFIC3) [MIM:602347]. PFIC3 is
    an autosomal recessive liver disorder presenting with early onset
    cholestasis that progresses to cirrhosis and liver failure before
    adulthood. It is characterized by elevated serum gamma-
    glutamyltransferase levels.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCB4 are the cause of intrahepatic
    cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) [MIM:147480]; also known as
    obstetric cholestasis. ICP is a liver disorder of pregnancy with
    serious consequences for the mother and fetus. Cholestasis results
    from abnormal biliary transport from the liver into the small
    intestine, and ICP is characterized by the occurrence of
    cholestasis in pregnancy in women with an otherwise normal medical
    history. The classical maternal feature is generalized pruritus,
    becoming more severe with advancing gestation. ICP causes fetal
    distress, spontaneous premature delivery and unexplained third
    trimester intrauterine death.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ABCB4 are a cause of cholelithiasis
    [MIM:600803]; also known as gallstones.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. MDR subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transmembrane type-1 domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transporter domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ABCB4".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005624; C:membrane fraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0042626; F:ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane m...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006629; P:lipid metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0042493; P:response to drug; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
ATP-binding; Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Hydrolase; Membrane;
Nucleotide-binding; Polymorphism; Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
