AC   O23482; Q8H0V0; Q940I5;
Probable oligopeptide transporter 3 (AtOPT3).
"Analysis of 1.9 Mb of contiguous sequence from chromosome 4 of
Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 4 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Empirical analysis of transcriptional activity in the Arabidopsis
genome.";
"An oligopeptide transporter gene family in Arabidopsis.";
"AtOPT3, a member of the oligopeptide transporter family, is essential
for embryo development in Arabidopsis.";
"Expression profiles of Arabidopsis thaliana in mineral deficiencies
reveal novel transporters involved in metal homeostasis.";
-!- FUNCTION: May be involved in the translocation of tetra- and
    pentapeptides across the cellular membrane in an energy-dependent
    manner. Acts also as a metal transporter that could be a component
    of the copper transport machinery. Essential for early embryo
    development.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Strong expression in flowers, leaves and
    roots. Preferentially expressed in the vascular tissues of
    seedlings and mature plants as well as in pollen and developing
    embryos.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Expressed 2 to 4 hours after fertilization in
    the embryo sac and subsequently in developing maternal tissues. By
    the globular stage, expression is observed in the developing
    endosperm, integument layers, the embryo proper, and the suspensor
    of the developing embryo. From the heart stage onward, expression
    observed in the embryo but neither in the suspensor nor in the
    endosperm and integument tissues.
-!- INDUCTION: Highly induced by iron, copper and manganese
    deficiencies.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the oligopeptide OPT transporter family.
-!- CAUTION: Ref.1 and Ref.2 sequences differ from that shown due to
    erroneous gene model prediction.
Developmental protein; Membrane; Peptide transport; Protein transport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIXTEEN
