AC   O43520; Q9BTP8;
Probable phospholipid-transporting ATPase IC (EC 3.6.3.1) (Familial
intrahepatic cholestasis type 1) (ATPase class I type 8B member 1).
"A gene encoding a P-type ATPase mutated in two forms of hereditary
cholestasis.";
"Multiple members of a third subfamily of P-type ATPases identified by
genomic sequences and ESTs.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Recurrent familial intrahepatic cholestasis in the Faeroe Islands.
Phenotypic heterogeneity but genetic homogeneity.";
"A missense mutation in FIC1 is associated with Greenland familial
cholestasis.";
-!- FUNCTION: May play a role in the transport of aminophospholipids
    from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and the
    maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids in the
    canicular membrane. May have a role in transport of bile acids
    into the canaliculus, uptake of bile acids from intestinal
    contents into intestinal mucosa or both.
-!- CATALYTIC ACTIVITY: ATP + H(2)O = ADP + phosphate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Found in most tissues except brain and
    skeletal muscle. Most abundant in pancreas and small intestine.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ATP8B1 are the cause of progressive familial
    intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 (PFIC1) [MIM:211600]; also known
    as Byler disease. PFIC1 is an autosomal recessive disorder,
    characterized by early infancy cholestasis, that may be initially
    episodic but progresses to malnutrition, growth retardation and
    end-stage liver disease before adulthood.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ATP8B1 are the cause of benign recurrent
    intrahepatic cholestasis (BRIC) [MIM:243300]; also known as
    Summerskill syndrome. BRIC is an autosomal recessive disorder,
    characterized by intermittent episodes of cholestasis without
    extrahepatic bile duct obstruction, with initial elevation of
    serum bile acids, followed by cholestatic jaundice which generally
    spontaneously resolves after periods of weeks to months.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in ATP8B1 may be associated with recurrent
    intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (RICP) [MIM:147480]; also
    known as pregnancy-related cholestasis. RICP is characterized by
    generalized itching, with or without jaundice, absence of biliary
    colic, absence of jaundice or pruritus between pregnancies, and
    absence of chronic liver disease. Appears during pregnancy
    (primarily in the third trimester), and disappears shortly
    postpartum. May be a female-limited autosomal dominant
    inheritance.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the cation transport ATPase (P-type)
    family. Type IV subfamily.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=ATP8B1".
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015721; P:bile acid transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007586; P:digestion; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006629; P:lipid metabolism; TAS:ProtInc.
ATP-binding; Disease mutation; Hydrolase; Magnesium; Membrane;
Metal-binding; Nucleotide-binding; Phosphorylation; Polymorphism;
Transmembrane.
TMTEN
