AC   Q96303;
Inorganic phosphate transporter 1-4 (AtPht1;4) (H(+)/Pi
cotransporter).
"Phosphate transporters from the higher plant Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Cloning of Arabidopsis thaliana phosphate transporter gene, AtPT2.";
"Phosphate transporter gene family of Arabidopsis thaliana.";
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 2 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"Expression analysis suggests novel roles for members of the Pht1
family of phosphate transporters in Arabidopsis.";
"Phosphite, an analog of phosphate, suppresses the coordinated
expression of genes under phosphate starvation.";
"Regulated expression of Arabidopsis phosphate transporters.";
"Phosphoproteomics of the Arabidopsis plasma membrane and a new
phosphorylation site database.";
"Phosphate transport in Arabidopsis: Pht1;1 and Pht1;4 play a major
role in phosphate acquisition from both low- and high-phosphate
environments.";
"Transcriptional regulation and functional properties of Arabidopsis
Pht1;4, a high affinity transporter contributing greatly to phosphate
uptake in phosphate deprived plants.";
-!- FUNCTION: High-affinity transporter for external inorganic
    phosphate. Acts as a H(+):phosphate symporter in both low- and
    high-Pi conditions. Confers sensitivity to arsenate.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Mostly expressed in roots, in tissues
    connecting the lateral roots to the primary root. Also present in
    flowers, in senescing anther filaments and in the abscission zone
    at the base of siliques. Expressed in hydathodes and axillary
    buds, and in some senescing leaves. After Pi starvation, localized
    in all cells of undifferentiated root segments, including root
    tips and root hairs, and in the epidermis, cortex and stellar
    regions of mature root segments.
-!- INDUCTION: In roots by phosphate starvation. Repressed by the Pi
    analog phosphite (Phi).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Although related to the sugar transporter family,
    it does not transport sugars.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Sugar
    transporter (TC 2.A.1.1) family. H(+):phosphate symporter
    (TC 2.A.1.9) subfamily.
Membrane; Phosphate transport; Phosphorylation; Symport;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
