AC   O15162;
Phospholipid scramblase 1 (PL scramblase 1) (Ca(2+)-dependent
phospholipid scramblase 1) (Erythrocyte phospholipid scramblase)
(MmTRA1b).
"Molecular cloning of human plasma membrane phospholipid scramblase. A
protein mediating transbilayer movement of plasma membrane
phospholipids.";
"Identity of human normal counterpart (MmTRA1b) of mouse
leukemogenesis-associated gene (MmTRA1a) product as plasma membrane
phospholipid scramblase and chromosome mapping of the human
MmTRA1b/phospholipid scramblase gene.";
"Identification of three new members of the phospholipid scramblase
gene family.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Isolation of an erythrocyte membrane protein that mediates Ca2+-
dependent transbilayer movement of phospholipid.";
"Regulation of phospholipid scramblase activity during apoptosis and
cell activation by protein kinase Cdelta.";
"c-Abl tyrosine kinase binds and phosphorylates phospholipid
scramblase 1.";
"Palmitoylation of phospholipid scramblase is required for normal
function in promoting Ca2+-activated transbilayer movement of membrane
phospholipids.";
"Identity of a conserved motif in phospholipid scramblase that is
required for Ca2+-accelerated transbilayer movement of membrane
phospholipids.";
"Phospholipid scramblase 1 potentiates the antiviral activity of
interferon.";
-!- FUNCTION: May mediate accelerated ATP-independent bidirectional
    transbilayer migration of phospholipids upon binding calcium ions
    that results in a loss of phospholipid asymmetry in the plasma
    membrane. May play a central role in the initiation of fibrin clot
    formation, in the activation of mast cells and in the recognition
    of apoptotic and injured cells by the reticuloendothelial system.
-!- FUNCTION: May play a role in the antiviral response of interferon
    (IFN) by amplifying and enhancing the IFN response through
    increased expression of select subset of potent antiviral genes.
    May contribute to cytokine-regulated cell proliferation and
    differentiation.
-!- COFACTOR: Calcium.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with ABL.
-!- INTERACTION:
    Q9BW18:CPSF6; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-740019, EBI-740029;
    Q96D64:NEU4; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-740019, EBI-746964;
    Q969I2:TFG; NbExp=1; IntAct=EBI-740019, EBI-357314;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; single-pass type II membrane
    protein.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in platelets, erythrocyte membranes,
    lymphocytes, spleen, thymus, prostate, testis, uterus, intestine,
    colon, heart, placenta, lung, liver, kidney and pancreas. Not
    detected in brain and skeletal muscle.
-!- INDUCTION: By phosphorylation by PKC. Induced by INFB1 in response
    to a viral infection.
-!- PTM: Known to be palmitoylated at one, yet undefined, site.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the phospholipid scramblase family.
 GO:0005886; C:plasma membrane; TAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005509; F:calcium ion binding; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0017128; F:phospholipid scramblase activity; TAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005515; F:protein binding; IPI:IntAct.
 GO:0017121; P:phospholipid scrambling; TAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0030168; P:platelet activation; NAS:UniProtKB.
3D-structure; Antiviral defense; Calcium; Direct protein sequencing;
Lipoprotein; Membrane; Palmitate; Phosphorylation; Repeat;
SH3-binding; Transmembrane.
TMONE
