AC   Q9D687;
Sodium-dependent neutral amino acid transporter B(0) (System B(0)
neutral amino acid transporter) (B(0)AT1) (Solute carrier family 6
member 19).
"Molecular cloning of mouse amino acid transport system B(0), a
neutral amino acid transporter related to Hartnup disorder.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"Characterization of mouse amino acid transporter B(0)AT1 (Slc6a19).";
-!- FUNCTION: Transporter that mediates epithelial resorption of
    neutral amino acids across the apical membrane of epithelial cells
    in the kidney and intestine. It appears that leucine is the
    preferred substrate, but all large neutral non-aromatic L-amino
    acids bind to this transporter. Uptake of leucine is sodium-
    dependent. In contrast to other members of the neurotransmitter
    transporter family, does not appear to be chloride-dependent.
-!- BIOPHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES:
    Kinetic parameters:
      KM=630 uM for leucine;
      KM=522 uM for glutamine;
      KM=589 uM for phenylalanine;
      Note=Vmax for leucine is about twice the value of Vmax for
      glutamine, and three times the value of Vmax for phenylalanine.
      KM and Vmax values are complex functions of the concentration of
      substrate (L-amino acid) and cosubstrate (Na(+)) and the
      membrane potential;
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Potential).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expression observed in kidney, small
    intestine, and skin. Expression not observed in other organs, such
    as lung, skeletal muscle, brain, liver and pancreas. In kidney,
    expression is localized in the renal cortex but not in the
    medulla. Substantial amounts of expression in the proximal
    tubules. The distal nephron segments and the glomeruli are
    consistently negative. In the small intestine, expression is
    exclusively localized in villus enterocytes. High resolution of
    the hybridization-positive villi reveals a gradient of expression
    with the highest levels in apical cells. Not detected in crypt
    cells or in any other cell types of the small intestine.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter (SNF)
    family.
 GO:0015175; F:neutral amino acid transporter activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0015804; P:neutral amino acid transport; IDA:MGI.
Amino-acid transport; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Symport; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWELVE
