AC   O46669;
Sodium channel protein type 10 subunit alpha (Sodium channel protein
type X subunit alpha) (Voltage-gated sodium channel subunit alpha
Nav1.8) (NaNG).
"Molecular cloning of a putative tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel
from dog nodose ganglion neurons.";
-!- FUNCTION: This protein mediates the voltage-dependent sodium ion
    permeability of excitable membranes. Assuming opened or closed
    conformations in response to the voltage difference across the
    membrane, the protein forms a sodium-selective channel through
    which sodium ions may pass in accordance with their
    electrochemical gradient. It is a tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium
    channel isoform. Its electrophysiological properties vary
    depending on the type of the associated beta subunits (in vitro).
    Plays a role in neuropathic pain mechanisms (By similarity).
-!- SUBUNIT: The voltage-resistant sodium channel consists of an ion
    conducting pore forming alpha-subunit regulated by one or more
    associated auxiliary subunits SCN1B, SCN2B and SCN3B. Found in a
    number of complexes with PRX, TCTEL1 and PDZK3. Interacts with
    proteins such as FSTL1, PRX, TCTEL1, PDZK3, S100A10 and many
    others (By similarity). Interacts with NEDD4 and NEDD4L.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein (By
    similarity). Note=It can be translocated to the extracellular
    membrane through association with S100A10 (By similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in nodose ganglia, but not in
    cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, liver, heart and skeletal muscle.
-!- INDUCTION: Down-regulated after axotomy in dorsal root ganglia (By
    similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The sequence contains 4 internal repeats, each with 5
    hydrophobic segments (S1,S2,S3,S5,S6) and one positively charged
    segment (S4). Segments S4 are probably the voltage-sensors and are
    characterized by a series of positively charged amino acids at
    every third position.
-!- PTM: Ubiquitinated by NEDD4L; which promotes its endocytosis (By
    similarity).
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sodium channel family.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 1 IQ domain.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Repeat; Sodium;
Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Transmembrane; Transport;
Ubl conjugation; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTWENTYFOUR
