AC   Q8BGY9; Q99PK3; Q9ESW5;
High-affinity choline transporter 1 (Solute carrier family 5 member 7)
(Hemicholinium-3-sensitive choline transporter) (CHT).
"Molecular cloning and characterization of a murine hemicholinium-3-
sensitive choline transporter.";
"Molecular cloning of the human and murine high affinity choline
transporters and characterization of the human gene structure.";
"The transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"Regulation of choline transporter surface expression and
phosphorylation by protein kinase C and protein phosphatase 1/2A.";
"Lethal impairment of cholinergic neurotransmission in hemicholinium-
3-sensitive choline transporter knockout mice.";
-!- FUNCTION: Imports choline from the extracellular space to the
    neuron with high affinity. Rate-limiting step in acetylcholine
    synthesis. Sodium ion and chloride ion dependent.
-!- PATHWAY: Acetylcholine biosynthesis.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein (By
    similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Found in spinal cord, brain-stem, mid-brain
    and striatum. Specific for cholinergic neurons.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylated by PKC and dephosphorylated by PP1/PP2A.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Although morphologically normal at birth, knockout
    mice become immobile, breathe irregularly, appear cyanotic, and
    die within an hour. Mice had developmental changes in
    neuromuscular junction morphology reminiscent of changes in mutant
    mice lacking ACh synthesis.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Specifically inhibited by nanomolar concentrations
    of hemicholinium 3.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sodium:solute symporter (SSF)
    (TC 2.A.21) family.
 GO:0016021; C:integral to membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015220; F:choline transporter activity; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0008292; P:acetylcholine biosynthesis; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0015871; P:choline transport; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0007274; P:neuromuscular synaptic transmission; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0007271; P:synaptic transmission, cholinergic; IMP:MGI.
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Membrane; Neurotransmitter biosynthesis;
Phosphorylation; Sodium; Sodium transport; Symport; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMTWELVE
