AC   Q02789; Q99240;
Voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1S (Voltage-
gated calcium channel subunit alpha Cav1.1) (Calcium channel, L type,
alpha-1 polypeptide, isoform 3, skeletal muscle).
"A single nucleotide deletion in the skeletal muscle-specific calcium
channel transcript of muscular dysgenesis (mdg) mice.";
"Molecular diversity of L-type calcium channels. Evidence for
alternative splicing of the transcripts of three non-allelic genes.";
-!- FUNCTION: Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the
    entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved
    in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle
    contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression,
    cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1S
    gives rise to L-type calcium currents. Long-lasting (L-type)
    calcium channels belong to the "high-voltage activated" (HVA)
    group. They are blocked by dihydropyridines (DHP),
    phenylalkylamines, benzothiazepines, and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA
    (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to omega-conotoxin-
    GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA).
    Calcium channels containing the alpha-1S subunit play an important
    role in excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle.
-!- SUBUNIT: Multisubunit complex consisting of alpha-1, alpha-2, beta
    and delta subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The channel activity is
    directed by the pore-forming and voltage-sensitive alpha-1
    subunit. In many cases, this subunit is sufficient to generate
    voltage-sensitive calcium channel activity. The auxiliary subunits
    beta and alpha-2/delta linked by a disulfide bridge regulate the
    channel activity. An additional gamma subunit is present only in
    skeletal muscle L-type channel.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1;
      IsoId=Q02789-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2;
      IsoId=Q02789-2; Sequence=VSP_050420;
-!- DOMAIN: Each of the four internal repeats contains five
    hydrophobic transmembrane segments (S1, S2, S3, S5, S6) and one
    positively charged transmembrane segment (S4). S4 segments
    probably represent the voltage-sensor and are characterized by a
    series of positively charged amino acids at every third position.
-!- DOMAIN: The loop between repeats II and III interacts with the
    ryanodine receptor, and is therefore important for calcium release
    from the endoplasmic reticulum necessary for muscle contraction.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation by PKA activates the calcium channel (By
    similarity).
-!- DISEASE: Defects in Cacna1s are the cause of muscular dysgenesis
    (MDG), a lethal autosomal recessive disorder in which there is
    total lack of excitation-contraction coupling in homozygotes, and
    which results in complete skeletal muscle paralysis. A single
    nucleotide deletion yields a protein with an altered and truncated
    C-terminus.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the calcium channel alpha-1 subunit family.
 GO:0030315; C:T-tubule; IDA:MGI.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Calcium channel; Calcium transport;
Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation;
Repeat; Transmembrane; Transport; Voltage-gated channel.
TMTWENTYFOUR
