AC   Q6NXK8; Q50K97;
Amiloride-sensitive cation channel 2, neuronal (Acid-sensing ion
channel) (Acid-sensing ion channel 1) (Brain sodium channel 2).
"Mus musculus mRNA for ASIC1b.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"The acid-activated ion channel ASIC contributes to synaptic
plasticity, learning, and memory.";
"Acid-sensing ion channel 1 is localized in brain regions with high
synaptic density and contributes to fear conditioning.";
"Neuroprotection in ischemia: blocking calcium-permeable acid-sensing
ion channels.";
"The ion channel ASIC1 contributes to visceral but not cutaneous
mechanoreceptor function.";
"Stomatin modulates gating of acid-sensing ion channels.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cation channel with high affinity for sodium, which is
    gated by extracellular protons and inhibited by the diuretic
    amiloride. Also permeable for Ca(2+), Li(+) and K(+). Generates a
    biphasic current with a fast inactivating and a slow sustained
    phase. Mediates glutamate-independent Ca(2+) entry into neurons
    upon acidosis. This Ca(2+) overloading is toxic for cortical
    neurons and may be in part responsible for ischemic brain injury.
    Heteromeric channel assembly seems to modulate channel properties.
-!- SUBUNIT: Homotetramer or heterotetramer with other ASIC proteins
    (Probable). Interacts with PRKCABP and ACCN1 (By similarity).
    Interacts with STOM.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (By similarity). Note=Localizes in synaptosomes at dendritic
    synapses of neurons. Colocalizes with DLG4.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=1; Synonyms=Asic1a, Asic alpha;
      IsoId=Q6NXK8-1; Sequence=Displayed;
    Name=2; Synonyms=Asic1b, Asic beta;
      IsoId=Q6NXK8-2; Sequence=VSP_015614, VSP_015615;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in brain areas receiving strong
    excitatory corticofugal input. In hippocampus, expressed in the
    hilus of the dentate gyrus. In the cerebral cortex expressed in
    anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, sensory and motor
    cortices. In the sensory cortex strongest expression is detected
    in the whisker barrel field. In sensorimotor and cingulate cortex
    expression is elevated in layer III. Also expressed in basal
    ganglia, striatum, ventral pallidum, olfactory tubercle, and
    nucleus accumbens. Weakly expressed in thalamus with the exception
    of the habenula and the medial septal nuclei. In olfactory bulb,
    preferentially expressed in the glomerular layer, within
    glomeruli. Expressed in cerebellum in the molecular and granule
    cell layers. Strongly expressed in amygdala complex, particularly
    in the lateral and basolateral nuclei. Isoform 1 is more abundant
    in brain compared to isoform 2 (at protein level). Expressed in
    the nodose ganglion and dorsal root ganglion.
-!- PTM: Phosphorylation by PKA regulates interaction with PRKCABP and
    subcellular location. Phosphorylation by PKC may regulate the
    channel (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Potentiated by Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Ba(2+), multivalent
    cations and potentiated by FMRFamide-related neuropeptides. PH
    dependence may be regulated by serine proteases. Inhibited by
    anti-inflammatory drugs like salicylic acid (By similarity).
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Mice lacking Accn2 display reduced spatial learning
    and memory capability, associated with absence of proton-gated
    currents in hippocampal neurons and impairment of hippocampal long
    term potentiation (LTP). They also show an increased
    mechanosensitivity of colonic and gastroesophageal
    mechanoreceptors and prolonged gastric emptying and an altered
    fear conditioning.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel
    family.
 GO:0005887; C:integral to plasma membrane; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0019717; C:synaptosome; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005261; F:cation channel activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0008306; P:associative learning; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0006812; P:cation transport; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0007613; P:memory; IMP:MGI.
 GO:0001101; P:response to acid; IDA:MGI.
Alternative splicing; Calcium; Calcium transport; Glycoprotein;
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Phosphorylation; Sodium;
Sodium channel; Sodium transport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWO
