AC   Q8R4D5;
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8.
"A TRP channel that senses cold stimuli and menthol.";
"The murine homologue of TRPM8(Trpp8) gene: cloning, sequencing and
tissue distribution.";
"ANKTM1, a TRP-like channel expressed in nociceptive neurons, is
activated by cold temperatures.";
"TRPM8 activation by menthol, icilin, and cold is differentially
modulated by intracellular pH.";
-!- FUNCTION: Receptor-activated non-selective cation channel involved
    in detection of sensations such as coolness, by being activated by
    cold temperature below 25 degrees Celsius. Activated by icilin,
    eucalyptol, menthol, cold and modulation of intracellular pH.
    Involved in menthol sensation. Permeable for monovalent cations
    sodium, potassium, and cesium and divalent cation calcium.
    Temperature sensing is tightly linked to voltage-dependent gating.
    Activated upon depolarization, changes in temperature resulting in
    graded shifts of its voltage-dependent activation curves. The
    chemical agonists menthol functions as a gating modifier, shifting
    activation curves towards physiological membrane potentials.
    Temperature sensitivity arises from a tenfold difference in the
    activation energies associated with voltage-dependent opening and
    closing.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein
    (Probable).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in dorsal root and trigeminal
    ganglia. Specifically expressed in a subset of pain- and
    temperature-sensing neurons. Not expressed in heavily myelinated
    neurons. Not expressed in neurons expressing TRPA1 or TRPV1.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the transient receptor family. LTrpC
    subfamily.
 GO:0016020; C:membrane; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0005262; F:calcium channel activity; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0006874; P:calcium ion homeostasis; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0009409; P:response to cold; IDA:MGI.
 GO:0050955; P:thermoception; IDA:MGI.
Ion transport; Ionic channel; Membrane; Sensory transduction;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMSIX
