AC   Q07001; Q52LH4;
Acetylcholine receptor protein subunit delta precursor.
"A muscle acetylcholine receptor is expressed in the human cerebellar
medulloblastoma cell line TE671.";
"Generation and annotation of the DNA sequences of human chromosomes 2
and 4.";
"The status, quality, and expansion of the NIH full-length cDNA
project: the Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC).";
"New mutations in acetylcholine receptor subunit genes reveal
heterogeneity in the slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome.";
"Novel delta subunit mutation in slow-channel syndrome causes severe
weakness by novel mechanisms.";
"Acetylcholine receptor delta subunit mutations underlie a fast-
channel myasthenic syndrome and arthrogryposis multiplex congenita.";
"Congenital myasthenic syndrome caused by low-expressor fast-channel
AChR delta subunit mutation.";
-!- FUNCTION: After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an
    extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and
    leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma
    membrane.
-!- SUBUNIT: Pentamer of two alpha chains, and one each of the beta,
    delta, and gamma (in immature muscle) or epsilon (in mature
    muscle) chains.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CHRND are a cause of slow-channel congenital
    myasthenic syndrome (SCCMS) [MIM:601462, 254200]. Congenital
    myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are inherited disorders of
    neuromuscular transmission that stem from mutations in
    presynaptic, synaptic, or postsynaptic proteins. Postsynaptic
    disorders result from mutations in proteins forming the subunits
    of the muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR). The kinetic
    abnormalities of AChR result in either prolonged ion channel
    activations that underlie "slow-channel myasthenic syndromes"
    (SCCMS) or abbreviated channel activations that underlie the
    abnormally rapid decay of endplate currents in "fast-channel
    syndromes" (FCCMS). A third disorder associated with postsynaptic
    CMS is called CMS type Id (CMS1d), and could also result from
    mutations in the proteins forming the subunits of the muscle AChR.
    Mutations underlying SCCMS cause a "gain of function" and usually
    show dominant inheritance.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CHRND are a cause of fast-channel congenital
    myasthenic syndrome (FCCMS) [MIM:608930]. Mutations underlying
    FCCMS cause a "loss of function" and show recessive inheritance.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ligand-gated ionic channel (TC 1.A.9)
    family.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=CHRND".
 GO:0005892; C:nicotinic acetylcholine-gated receptor-chan...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0004889; F:nicotinic acetylcholine-activated cation-se...; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006936; P:muscle contraction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007165; P:signal transduction; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006810; P:transport; TAS:ProtInc.
Disease mutation; Glycoprotein; Ion transport; Ionic channel;
Membrane; Phosphorylation; Postsynaptic membrane; Receptor; Signal;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMFOUR
