AC   O60494; Q5VTA6; Q96RU9;
Cubilin precursor (Intrinsic factor-cobalamin receptor) (Intrinsic
factor-vitamin B12 receptor) (460 kDa receptor) (Intestinal intrinsic
factor receptor).
"The human intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 receptor, cubilin: molecular
characterization and chromosomal mapping of the gene to 10p within the
autosomal recessive megaloblastic anemia (MGA1) region.";
"The DNA sequence and comparative analysis of human chromosome 10.";
"The intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 receptor, cubilin, is a high-
affinity apolipoprotein A-I receptor facilitating endocytosis of high-
density lipoprotein.";
"Cubilin dysfunction causes abnormal metabolism of the steroid hormone
25(OH) vitamin D(3).";
"Megalin-dependent cubilin-mediated endocytosis is a major pathway for
the apical uptake of transferrin in polarized epithelia.";
"The functional cobalamin (vitamin B12)-intrinsic factor receptor is a
novel complex of cubilin and amnionless.";
"Mutations in CUBN, encoding the intrinsic factor-vitamin B12
receptor, cubilin, cause hereditary megaloblastic anaemia 1.";
"Cubilin P1297L mutation associated with hereditary megaloblastic
anemia 1 causes impaired recognition of intrinsic factor-vitamin B(12)
by cubilin.";
-!- FUNCTION: Cotransporter which plays a role in lipoprotein, vitamin
    and iron metabolism, by facilitating their uptake. Binds to ALB,
    MB, Kappa and lambda-light chains, TF, hemoglobin, GC, SCGB1A1,
    APOA1, high density lipoprotein, and the GIF-cobalamin complex.
    The binding of all ligands required calcium. Serves as important
    transporter in several absorptive epithelia, including intestine,
    renal proximal tubules and embryonic yolk sac. Interaction with
    LRP2 mediates its trafficking throughout vesicles and facilitates
    the uptake of specific ligands like GC, hemoglobin, ALB, TF and
    SCGB1A1. Interaction with AMN controls its trafficking to the
    plasma membrane and facilitates endocytosis of ligands. May play
    an important role in the development of the peri-implantation
    embryo through internalization of APOA1 and cholesterol. Binds to
    LGALS3 at the maternal-fetal interface.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with LRP2 in a dual-receptor complex in a
    calcium-dependent manner. Component of the cubam complex composed
    of CUBN and AMN.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Endosome; endosomal membrane; peripheral
    membrane protein (By similarity). Lysosome; lysosomal membrane;
    peripheral membrane protein (By similarity). Note=Colocalizes with
    AMN and LRP2 in the endocytotic apparatus of epithelial cells (By
    similarity).
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in kidney proximal tubule cells,
    placenta, visceral yolk-sac cells and in absorptive intestinal
    cells. Expressed in the epithelium of intestine and kidney.
-!- DOMAIN: The CUB domains 5 to 8 mediate binding to GIF and ALB. CUB
    domains 1 and 2 mediate interaction with LRP2.
-!- PTM: The precursor is cleaved by a trans-Golgi proteinase furin.
    The result is a propeptide cleaved off.
-!- PTM: N-glycosylated.
-!- DISEASE: Defects in CUBN are a cause of recessive hereditary
    megaloblastic anemia 1 (MGA1) [MIM:261100]; also referred to as
    MGA1 Norwegian type or Imerslund-Grasbeck syndrome (I-GS). MGA1 is
    due to selective malabsorption of vitamin B12. Defects in vitamin
    B12 absorption lead to impaired function of thymidine synthase. As
    a consequence DNA synthesis is interrupted. Rapidly dividing cells
    involved in erythropoiesis are particularly affected.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 27 CUB domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 7 EGF-like domains.
-!- WEB RESOURCE: NAME=GeneReviews;
    URL="http://www.genetests.org/query?gene=CUBN".
 GO:0031526; C:brush border membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0031232; C:extrinsic to external side of plasma membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0016020; C:membrane; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0042803; F:protein homodimerization activity; IDA:UniProtKB.
 GO:0004872; F:receptor activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0005215; F:transporter activity; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0015889; P:cobalamin transport; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0007582; P:physiological process; TAS:ProtInc.
 GO:0006898; P:receptor-mediated endocytosis; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0001894; P:tissue homeostasis; NAS:UniProtKB.
Calcium; Cholesterol metabolism; Cobalamin; Cobalt;
Direct protein sequencing; Disease mutation; EGF-like domain;
Endocytosis; Glycoprotein; Lipid metabolism; Polymorphism;
Protein transport; Receptor; Repeat; Signal; Steroid metabolism;
Transport.
TMZERO
