AC   P07845;
Sticholysin-2 (Sticholysin II) (Cytolysin St II) (StnII) (Cytolysin
III) (Cytotoxin).
"Primary structure of Stoichactis helianthus cytolysin III.";
"Primary structure of two cytolysin isoforms from Stichodactyla
helianthus differing in their hemolytic activity.";
"Cloning and expression of sticholysin II from sea anemone,
Stichodactyla helianthus.";
"Purification and characterization of two hemolysins from
Stichodactyla helianthus.";
"Properties of St I and St II, two isotoxins isolated from
Stichodactyla helianthus: a comparison.";
"Phenotypic selection and characterization of randomly produced non-
haemolytic mutants of the toxic sea anemone protein sticholysin II.";
"Model peptides mimic the structure and function of the N-terminus of
the pore-forming toxin sticholysin II.";
"Immunohistochemical targeting of sea anemone cytolysins on tentacles,
mesenteric filaments and isolated nematocysts of Stichodactyla
helianthus.";
"Crystal and electron microscopy structures of sticholysin II
actinoporin reveal insights into the mechanism of membrane pore
formation.";
-!- FUNCTION: This cardiac stimulatory and hemolytic pore-forming
    protein forms cations-selective hydrophilic pores of around 1 nm.
    Pore formation proceeds by membrane binding via a surface rich in
    aromatic residues, followed by translocation of the N-terminal
    region to the membrane and, finally, across the bilayer to form a
    functional pore.
-!- SUBUNIT: Tetramer in the presence of a lipidic interface. Monomer,
    in soluble state (By similarity).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Secreted protein. Note=Found in nematocyst.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed in tentacles and mesenteric
    filaments.
-!- DOMAIN: The N-terminal region, before the pore is formed, is bound
    to the lipid membrane. It partitions into the lipid-water
    interface and stabilizes the monomeric molecule on the membrane.
    Finally, it traverses the bilayer, thus forming the transmembrane
    pore (By similarity).
-!- DOMAIN: The Trp-rich region is important for the binding to lipid
    membrane (By similarity).
-!- MASS SPECTROMETRY: MW=19293; MW_ERR=2; METHOD=Electrospray;
    RANGE=1-175; NOTE=Ref.2.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sea anemone actinoporin family.
3D-structure; Cytolysis; Direct protein sequencing; Hemolysis;
Ion transport; Membrane; Nematocyst; Porin; Toxin; Transmembrane;
Transport.
TMZERO
