AC   Q9VR07; O02003; Q94917;
Sodium- and chloride-dependent GABA transporter ine (Protein
inebriated) (Protein receptor oscillation A).
"Identification and characterization of inebriated, a gene affecting
neuronal excitability in Drosophila.";
"A neurotransmitter transporter encoded by the Drosophila inebriated
gene.";
"Drosophila rosA gene, which when mutant causes aberrant photoreceptor
oscillation, encodes a novel neurotransmitter transporter homologue.";
"The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.";
"Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a
systematic review.";
"A Drosophila full-length cDNA resource.";
"Control of Drosophila perineurial glial growth by interacting
neurotransmitter-mediated signaling pathways.";
"The Drosophila inebriated-encoded neurotransmitter/osmolyte
transporter: dual roles in the control of neuronal excitability and
the osmotic stress response.";
"In vivo properties of the Drosophila inebriated-encoded
neurotransmitter transporter.";
-!- FUNCTION: Plays a role in neuronal membrane excitation, important
    for normal response properties of the photoreceptor. Able to
    control excitability from either neurons or glia cells. Ine
    negatively regulates neuronal sodium channels. Controls
    neurotransmitter-mediated signaling pathways associated with the
    structure of the larval peripheral nerve, ine and eag control
    perineurial glial growth through partially redundant pathways.
    Isoform A and isoform B are both functional, although isoform A
    functions with greater efficiency. Has a role in osmolyte
    transport within the Malpighian tubule and hindgut.
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
-!- ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS:
    Event=Alternative splicing; Named isoforms=2;
    Name=A; Synonyms=P1;
      IsoId=Q9VR07-1; Sequence=Displayed;
      Note=The long N terminus is uncommon among members of the
      sodium- and chloride-dependent neurotransmitter transporter
      family but is required for efficient transporter activity;
    Name=B; Synonyms=P2;
      IsoId=Q9VR07-2; Sequence=VSP_052087, VSP_052088;
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Expressed both maternally and zygotically.
    Developing embryos exhibit expression in the posterior hindgut,
    foregut, midgut, Malpighian tubules, anal plate, Garland cells,
    and a subset of cells in the central nervous system. Central
    nervous system expression is seen in segmentally repeating in
    cells flanking the midline of the ventral ganglion. Isoform A and
    isoform B are colocalized in both the nervous system and the fluid
    reabsorption system.
-!- MISCELLANEOUS: Flies lacking ine, in a wild-type background,
    display no observable behavioral defects. In a Shaker mutant
    background, flies lacking ine exhibit downturned wings and an
    indented thorax. Flies lacking ine exhibit increased excitability
    of the larval peripheral nerve by causing the defective re-uptake
    of the substrate neurotransmitter of the ine transporter and thus
    overstimulation by this neurotransmitter. Flies lacking ine
    increase the growth of the perineurial glial layer of the larval
    peripheral nerve. Flies overexpressing ine exhibit delayed onset
    of long-term facilitation and increased failure rate of
    transmitter release at the larval neuromuscular junction, reduced
    amplitude of larval nerve compound action potentials, suppression
    of the leg-shaking behavior of mutants defective in the Shaker-
    encoded potassium channel, and temperature-sensitive paralysis.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter (SNF)
    family.
 GO:0016021; C:integral to membrane; NAS:UniProtKB.
 GO:0005034; F:osmosensor activity; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0042065; P:glial growth; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0047484; P:regulation of response to osmotic stress; IMP:UniProtKB.
 GO:0019226; P:transmission of nerve impulse; IMP:UniProtKB.
Alternative splicing; Complete proteome; Developmental protein;
Differentiation; Glycoprotein; Membrane; Neurogenesis;
Neurotransmitter transport; Symport; Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
