AC   O80725;
Multidrug resistance protein 4 (P-glycoprotein 4).
"Sequence and analysis of chromosome 2 of the plant Arabidopsis
thaliana.";
"PGP4, an ATP binding cassette P-glycoprotein, catalyzes auxin
transport in Arabidopsis thaliana roots.";
"The Arabidopsis thaliana ABC protein superfamily, a complete
inventory.";
"Phosphoproteomics of the Arabidopsis plasma membrane and a new
phosphorylation site database.";
"MDR-like ABC transporter AtPGP4 is involved in auxin-mediated lateral
root and root hair development.";
-!- FUNCTION: Auxin influx transporter that mediates the transport of
    auxin in roots. Contributes to the basipetal transport in
    hypocotyls and root tips by establishing an auxin uptake sink in
    the root cap. Confers sensitivity to 1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid
    (NPA). Regulates the root elongation, the initiation of lateral
    roots and the development of root hairs. Can transports IAA,
    indole-3-propionic acid, NPA syringic acid, vanillic acid and some
    auxin metabolites, but not 2,4-D and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid.
-!- SUBUNIT: Interacts with 1-naphtylphthalamic acid (NPA).
-!- SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cell membrane; multi-pass membrane protein.
    Note=Non-polar distribution in apical cells. Apical (bottom)
    localization in mature root cells. Basal (top) localization in the
    root elongation zone.
-!- TISSUE SPECIFICITY: Mostly expressed in roots, especially in the
    root elongation zone and lateral roots. In mature portion of the
    root, expressed in the epidermis and cortex. In the root
    elongation zone, confined to epidermis. In root tips, present in
    the root cap, S3 columella and epidermal cells.
-!- DEVELOPMENTAL STAGE: Highly expressed at early stages of root
    development.
-!- INDUCTION: By auxin, and cytokinins such as kinetin. Repressed by
    abscisic acid and cold treatment.
-!- SIMILARITY: Belongs to the ABC transporter family. Multidrug
    resistance exporter (TC 3.A.1.201) subfamily.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transmembrane type-1 domains.
-!- SIMILARITY: Contains 2 ABC transporter domains.
 GO:0016020; C:membrane; IDA:TAIR.
 GO:0008559; F:xenobiotic-transporting ATPase activity; IDA:TAIR.
 GO:0009926; P:auxin polar transport; TAS:TAIR.
 GO:0009733; P:response to auxin stimulus; IEP:TAIR.
 GO:0009735; P:response to cytokinin stimulus; IEP:TAIR.
ATP-binding; Auxin signaling pathway; Direct protein sequencing;
Glycoprotein; Membrane; Nucleotide-binding; Phosphorylation; Repeat;
Transmembrane; Transport.
TMTWELVE
